the rotation of the earth is not a constant. in fact the rotation of the earth is slowing down, which means that a full day is getting slightly longer. without leap seconds our clocks would slowly drift ever so slightly out of sync with the actual day. we could deal with this by redefining how how long 1 second is, making it slightly longer so that one day is still exactly 24*60*60 seconds. but in practice that is really inconvenient for a lot of our technology which relies on very precise timing. its easier to just move us ahead one second every couple of years or so. The Earth's rotation is not regular. It varies a bit, so sometimes we add a second. We do this to ensure that noon is always going to be sometime around mid-day. If we did not add leap seconds, over a very long period of time where the Earth's rotation slowly changed, noon could end up being at dusk. We want to keep 7am in the morning, noon at mid-day, 7pm around evening, etc. Though we have never had one, it's also possible to have a negative leap second. That is, taking away a second from the year. This has never happened, but if the Earth's rotation were to speed up, it could happen. The biggest thing to know about leap seconds is that they can cause computer problems. You might remember the Y2K bug. A leap second can cause similar problems, and they actually have caused problems in the past. The reason for this is that generally we expect a day to have 24 hours, and for time to always move forward. With a leap second this is not true. When writing software, programers try to think of all the possible exceptions that could happen withing their code. For example, the program might expect a word, but instead get a number. A good programmer will check for these exceptions and deal with them. However, a programer can easily forget about leap seconds and not have a fail-safe in their code for when a day have more than 24 hours. When such an exception happens, the program can produce errors or crash. It is an interesting topic, you can read more about it here: URL_0 Because the Earth's rotation is slowing. If you multiply 24 hours by 60 minutes by 60 seconds, you find that there are 86400 seconds per day. The problem is that our definition of the second is based on [an average that is a century old.]( URL_0 ) In modern times, the average day is about 2 thousandths of a second longer—again, because of Earth's slowing rotation. Those thousandths of a second add up, so every few years we have to slip in an extra second to account for them. Without leap seconds, we'd eventually end up with noon at 7 o'clock, though admittedly, this would take a very long time.
Pretty much the same way any other business begins: raise some money, form a company, apply for whatever licensing is required in your industry (if any), and start trying to pick up customers. In form, a bank isn't significantly different from any other kind of company except that it's subject to banking regulations.
lasagna (like many foods) have a lot of seasoning (the tomato sauce especially). the longer the food sits, the longer the seasoning marinates. thus, more flavor
Because of your culture. In comparison, here in germany it's the other way around. We're more lax on the sex and nudity, but violence, gore and the like get the boot. Video games are largely a USA centered industry, with Japan being the 2nd place, grandfathered in. The USA is a country which is totally fine with murder and blood and violence. We figuratively get off on it. Probably literally, too, some of us. Also, the largest games are marketed to and prodicrd with intent on 12-14 year old boys in the US, and they demographic wants to be violent and heroic at the same time. The more blood, the better. Top voted comment is everyone in america loves violence and hates sex because they're dumb, but it's really just an aspect of our culture. not just american culture, virtually any culture. imagine you walk in on your two kids having a pretend gun-fight in the living room. They're just playing. Play-fighting, wrestling, all these things are just completely ingrained in us as a species. Now imagine you walked into your living room and your kids are pretend fucking. That's a whole other situation isn't it? Like it or not, fighting, and violence is something that we see in children's cartoons because mild conflict and fighting is something even babies are capable of. Sex however is something that's supposedly much more mature than just imaginary shoot-outs or car crashes, because it's honestly not really something that people want kids to be exposed to at an early age. I get it, some countries are cooler with it than other countries, but you have to be a complete idiot to not understand why someone wouldn't think twice over lego dudes killing each other, and might be hestant about seeing barbie giving ken a blowjob. Some really weird comments in here skewering western culture and claiming the pervasiveness of violence is because of the culture these things come from. That is total bullshit. Games depict violence, normalize violence and contain violence as a central theme because of the very nature of games. In most games, and video games are no exception, you have winners and you have losers; you have win conditions and you have fail-states. Imagining a game where victory is achievable through violent means is easy; you win, you live and progress, you lose, you die and go no further. Now imagine what a game would look like if its core mechanic was sexual in nature. What is your win condition? Getting to have sex? Getting married? You can't gamify sexual content without doing one or all of the following: * alienating half of all possible users by making your win-state a relationship with a woman, thus losing the interest of all possible people attracted to men * alienating everyone that doesn't find the "win-state" of your game to be even desirable. ie. how do you make your game-girl universally appealing to everyone in your male audience * Objectifying women/men by making your win condition a relationship. A trophy. These games exist, they are called dating sims and they are very niche products which many people find creepy or demeaning. Imagine if mainstream gaming depicted sexuality and relationships to the degree it does violence, and how much more damaging that would be to people's ability to form meaningful real-world relationships. Violence on the other hand is more universal, more immediately identifiable, and more easily translated into a game. Not only that, but people understand that there is a time and place for violence, that society universally condemns the use of extreme violence to solve our problems, whereas sexuality and its expression is more nuanced. **TL;DR** games are violent because winning and losing is clearer, less morally grey, and easier to understand than if the goals and subject matter of the game was sexual Maybe it has to do with all the fundie Christians here. There are European countries with lots of religious people but they're religious in a different way it seems. Not so preoccupied with normal human sexuality (except maybe homosexuality)
At least partially it's due to economic pressures. As the old media lost the methods of revenue gathering - newspapers stopped selling, TV in its pure form is on its way out - they decided to adopt the methods of the new media that was sweeping over Facebook and Twitter. Higher response speed, clickbaity titles, listicles; and general cost-cutting to make ends meet. The latter means that there's fewer and fewer journalists to do any snooping, and the former incentivizes speed over quality. Basically, it's either to parrot the words of officials than to do any serious journalism these days, and the officials know this. Of course, partially it's due to the polarization; the fact that America is dominated by merely six media groups doesn't help either. Both sides are down to extreme distortion if not outright falsification of current events, and we're lucky they agree that the sky is blue. Facts are not necessarily the whole truth. If I say blacks commit more crimes, by a certain set of numbers, I'm correct. But if you include other data like blacks are more likely to be searched or whites are more likely to carry drugs, those numbers are somewhat misleading. So truths matter - a collection of interpreted facts. As humans we have certain biases. We start with a general world view then seek information to support it. You may have seem that meme/Facebook post if the dude celebrating the repeal of Obamacare but loving ACA. Dude was so convinced Obamacare was bad because Obama; but then ACA was great for him. So you have people convicted that truths are facts. But like above, not all facts lead to truths. Overall, fact checking takes work. If you're in a history class with one textbook, you'll get incomplete data. If you're in a history class with 8 books of required reading, you'll get closer to the truth. But which one is harder? So we depend on others for things. I go to a doctor, a dentist, and accountant. And I go to sources I think reputable in order to make political decisions. "That I think reputable". American politics over the years has been moving away from caring about the exact issues to more just being about "your team" vs. "their team". Once you have a team your on and rooting for you integrate that into your own personal self. So any criticism of your team is seen as an attack on your self as well. Most people when faced with such an attack will dismiss it as baseless lies.
The method for working this out (assuming the horizon is perfectly flat) is to calculate the distance from your eye to sea level in meters, and multiply it by 13. Then you square root this to get the distance in KM.
Red cheeks is an outward display of embarrassment. There are all sorts of examples of involuntarily facial expressions that are tied to specific emotions (think crying for sadness, downward eyebrows for anger, smile for happiness). These expressions signal our emotional state to other people. It's important that they are involuntary, otherwise they could be easily faked. In fact, it's very easy to discriminate between a fake smile and a genuine one and only skilled actors can flush their cheeks red on command. In the case of embarrassment, we're signalling to others that we recognize that we've done something that we are ashamed of and that we regret. It's a way of communicating that we're not oblivious to our actions and that we understand when we've transgressed a social norm.
Not quite like you're 5 but.... All foods we eat have fats and oils right? Well heat can make food break down making it easier for our taste buds to recognize certain flavors and aromas. As with anything cold, it tends to dull our senses. When your taste buds get cold, it makes it harder for your body to recognize flavors. That's why when ice cream melts, it's almost too sweet because it doesn't have that perfect balance of sugary goodness and freezing cold to mellow it out.
I thought this was just a personal thing. I chalked it up to being non-stop occupied from the minute I wake up till dinner is finished and cleaned. Then alone with my thoughts. Thoughts lead to the emotions. Also tiredness/fatigue. From where did you get this idea? Just personal experience? I notice that I'm busier (i.e. more distracted) during the day. At night there's more time to dwell and ruminate. When you're tired, you don't regulate emotions as well as when you're well-rested. Managing and regulating emotions takes coordination. Over the course of the day, connections break down a bit. When you sleep, these connections reset and you start the next day at full capacity. You have a lot to do with it, of course. Worrying about tomorrow, regret or worry about stuff you didn't get around to finishing...there are millions of reasons your mood can change.
It's a filler that indicates you're still thinking of what to say next. It often becomes a habit, as an absence of saying anything may allow someone else to interject and thus disrupt what you're trying to say. As a random useless fact, different languages have different filler words. As I recall, some Chinese use a word that sounds akin to the N-word to Americans. These are known as "buffer phrases", they also include things such as "like" and "well". We know that we are supposed to say something, but don't know what to say. So we say things that have no inherent meaning and can be used to string thoughts together. You'll notice that during a Q & A that a salesperson or politician will often begin each answer with the same phrase. Something akin to "That's a fantastic question . . ." which they use as an automatic response that buys them time to think of an answer.
First, it's important to understand what heritability means in genetics. It does not mean what people think it means, similar to how "theory" means guess in the everyday vernacular, but means "overarching explanation of how things happen based on all the facts we know" in science. "Heritability" in genetics is what proportion of the variation between individuals in one population is attributable to genetic differences. Notable limitations are that this is population-specific, and does not tell you how much the trait itself is caused by genes or environment. An example one of my professors gave is that wearing pants would be just about 100% heritable. Now that that's over with, according to twin studies, IQ [has a pretty good heritability]( URL_2 ) compared to many other behavioural traits. How good IQ approximates actual intelligence is an ongoing matter of debate. IQ scores for populations in developed countries [continually creep upward]( URL_1 ), much faster than evolution could possibly go, so obviously genetics is not a complete explanation. And sometimes this increase goes at different speeds for different groups. [Women used to score much lower]( URL_0 ) than men, but over the last century that gap has closed. This may be because women are increasingly pursuing education compared to the past. Research such as this has often been used to prop up white supremacy and other abhorrent beliefs. In the late 1800s to mid 1900s, it was even used as justification for forcibly sterilizing people deemed too dumb. Be very cautious of anyone telling you this justifies treating other people in certain ways; it doesn't. Your entire conscious "self" is housed within a physical organ, your brain, and like any other organ how effectively it works is subject to genetic traits and markers inherited from your parents, in the same way that two tall parents will presumably have a tall child. That's not to say intelligence is a function of genetics *only*, but it plays a part.
In theory, war itself is a diplomatic state between two nations, where in those two nations will use their respective militaries to sort out what ever disagreement brought on the state of war. War crimes are, in theory, defined by a breach of the Geneva convention, which are the rules by which nations are required to make war ( pretty much, leave the civilians alone, and don't nuke, gas, or use any weapon that will cause unnecessary suffering.), in theory. In practice, the worst offenders tend to win the wars they're involved with, rendering the Geneva convention useless as a tool to restrain the excesses of powerful nations at war, And reducing it to a tool to further punish people who have lost a war. There are actual rules for making and mantaining a war. As explained in this Vsauce video (He segways to this topic in the middle of it): URL_0 About not beign a crime, i don't know If there is a singles answer. This gets into social and philosophical issue, i guess. You draw the line where countries agree to draw the line. Understand that humanitarianism was only part of the reason the Geneva Convention exists. It was every bit as much about big countries not wanting nasty but easy to make weapons in the hands of little countries. Banning chemical and biological weapons was a way of maintaining their power. Banning killing and nukes...not so much. War crimes are decided by the winners The "winner" also does not need to be involved in the war. Currently, the US (and NATO) is the perpetual winner and decides whatever is in their best interest, regardless of the actions actually taken. There technically are some guidelines, but because the above is true, they don't matter in the real world as compared with the interests of the winner In addition to the other answers, there are usually gentleman agreements in regard to what you can and can't do during a war. This is under the condition of "I won't do x to you if you don't do x to me".
They're much easier to peel if you immediately cool them off, as opposed to letting them sit in the hot water after turning off the stove. I know it's much easier to peel eggs if you hard boil them when they're a few weeks old. Hard boiling fresh eggs makes for difficult peeling. I'm not sure why this is, but my grandmother taught me this and she was right. Hope this helps.
It's called 'gustatory rhinorrhea' - in some cases a reaction to spicy foods which are an irritant; in other cases, like if your nose runs no matter what you're eating, its a mistaken stimulation of the nerves running to your nose that create mucous - the nerves that control saliva flow upon thinking about eating, or eating, or smelling food smells. The mouth glands are normally stimulated into producing saliva, but in these cases, your nose gets involved by mistake also.
This might depend on the city/country, but in Germany works like this: There is a antenna in the front of the tram or bus (which you might be able to see) which sends a signal on a specific wavelength which includes the tram/bus number (the number of the vehicle, not the line) and the current time as information. All over the city there are antennas catching signals of that specific wavelength. It reads which line the signal came from and also looks at the time the signal was sent and it's own current time. From that difference it calculates how much time passed since the signal was sent and since the speed of the signal is constant, it can calculate the distance the vehicle is away from that station. Now the station can't know where the train is tho, as there are many points that are that certain distance away from the antenna. To be exact, it can only say that the vehicle is on a cirle with the calculated distance as radius away from the antenna itself. So what it does is, it sends the distance it calculated and line it received to some kind of traffic center (idk how exactly you call that in English, hope you know what I mean). The center collects data from different antennas. With two antennas it can already reduce the number of possible positions to 2 (the intersections of both circles around the antenna). A third antenna is usually enough to find the exact location (just make sure the antennas don't lie on one line). I'd expect them to use more signals tho, to make sure there are no errors etc. Now that the position of the vehicle is known, the rest just works like a navigation system. The center then sends the info to the stations and trams/busses which approach that station. So now for why it changes, I must admit, I can't answer with certainty. I could imagine two possibilities: * The signals are a bit unprecise (the time calculation and therefore the distance calculation), so even if the vehicle is standing still, the center might recieve the info it's moving a bit. If it is standing at a red light and right at the "border" for needing 8 and 9 minutes to the destination, that might cause that change. * The navigation part is calculated dynamically, meaning the calculated time needed from one point to another varies, depnding on how much fast the vehicle is moving in general. When it recognizes the vehicle is moving normally it might display 8 minutes needed to your station, but if it suddenly becomes very slow, the center might recognize that and expect the vehicle to continue to drive slower, therefore needing a bit more time to your station. Btw in the second case an advanced algorithm should be able to recognize whether the vehicle just had one station where it lost a lot of time (= no negative impact on the time from point A to B) or whether it's constantly moving slower than expected (= more time needed from point A to B) .
The ear basically transmits information to the auditory nerve and then the brain deals with processing the information it receives. The eye has a lot more "pre-processing" before any information gets to the brain. Networks of neurons within the eye process information to a certain extent before this information is sent to the brain. This is a lot harder to replicate with electronics. The other issue is that the ear is a stationary thing. The eyeball moves all over the place to focus on different things, so with a "fake eye" we would have to hook into the nerves that go to eye muscles in order for the fake eye to know what the brain wants to look at. While vision and hearing are both very complicated processes, I would say that vision is overall a lot harder to replicate with electronics. But as others has said, research is ongoing and there has been limited success. I'm sure vision implants will be a thing one day. Also cochlear implants don't "fix" deafness they work for some ppl but not all and even for those they do "work" for don't hear the way someone who was born with full hearing does. Both hearing aids and cochlear implants work best at 3 feet. They also pick up then amplify every sound there is and it can be really difficult to work out what you are suppose to be hearing.
Motorcycles used to be more common as a daily driver and even utility vehicle. People might not afford a car or a car driver license. Adding a side car makes a motorcycle much more useful as a daily driver. A worker might have lots of tools in the sidecar, you could go grocery shopping with the bike and even take your wife and kids with you on trips. The Armies wanted sidecars on their bikes to allow two solders on a bike. However nowadays people buy a motorcycle for more recreational use. Most people have a car or access to one within their budgets. Even people who use their bike as a daily commuter might use a car for their weekly grocery shopping or their weekly getaway with the wife and kids. The sidecar makes the bike more heavy, harder to navigate narrow places, more expensive and less enjoyable to ride.
You have an internal temperature that your body has to regulate. Water transfers heat really well and dousing yourself in water that is 20-30 degrees colder than your core temperature your body has to work harder to keep the temperature where it needs to be so it's a little uncomfortable.
Potential energy. Someone put the magnet and pin close to another but seperated. Thus he transformed kinetic energy into potential energy. Which then is re transformed by the magnet into kinetic energy accelerating the pin towards it. If you would separate the pin from the magnet again you would then transform more kinetic energy back to potential energy. Magnetic potential energy. The magnet and the pin (combined) have some energy just by existing and being far apart. When they move closer together this potential energy is converted to kinetic energy. When you pull them apart again, you're supplying kinetic energy which is then converted into potential energy. Note that often to simplify calculations, we say they have zero potential energy when they're really far apart, and negative potential energy when they're close together.
Usually when we read a word our mind tends to jump to its meaning rather than looking at the word itself. For example you can rearrange the letters within a word as long as the first and last letters are correct and someone can still read it with reasonable accuracy. By looking at a word often enough you are no longer just looking at the meaning but rather the individual letters themselves. This causes your mind to see them as a series of letters, not the recognizable pattern that whole words are correlated with. The term is "Semantic Satiation". URL_0 Researchers blame the repeated firing of the same neurons over and over, diminishing their effect as time passes.
Because your tongue is wet, and metal is extremely heat-conductive. So, the metal cools your saliva faster than your tongue can warm it up. At low enough temperatures, the saliva freezes to both the pole and tongue, so you're stuck. The only safe option for releasing the frozen saliva is to heat up the pole above freezing, usually by pouring hot water on it at the point where the tongue is stuck; just pulling will tear off the tip of the tongue where it is frozen.
When it hits the planet, there is so much energy it literally explodes. That's why there's a crater and nothing bigger than meteorite gravel left behind. Think about tossing a snowball at a wall.
We tend to favor music which we are already familiar with and are generally more reluctant to listen to anything unfamiliar. This is because the whole enjoyment of music is derived from the predictability of its beat and lyrics by the listener. So when we hear a new song, we may initially feel put off since it's unfamiliar territory as far as our recollection of it is concerned but through multiple listens it eventually "grows" on us through our memorization of it. An interesting example is jazz. The primary reason it's so hard for people to enjoy jazz is due to its intrinsic quality of unpredictability. It's like pleasure mixed with pain. It's essentially the bdsm of music genres.
Trade agreements, negotiation of travel between boarders, military cooperation, cultural study, national security advisory.... Diplomats are points of contact for official communication between countries, and are of particular importance in making agreements between governments. If you had a king for example the king isn't going to visit a neighboring country in order to discuss trade arrangements. They would send a representative who is well-spoken and delegated a certain amount of authority to negotiate the agreements on behalf of the king. Communication would otherwise have taken far too long. These days diplomats basically do the same sort of thing.
We love our own smell. Try scratching someone else's groin and smell it, it ain't as pleasant. I personally think that we just want to check if there's something wrong, if those smell as bad as usual then we're fine. But if it start to smell different we will at least be caution if something was wrong. If you know you smell bad it's a good idea to find out just *how bad*. Maybe it's not *that bad* and you can carry on but maybe not point around with that bumhole-smelling finger too much, if it's *really bad* maybe you go wash yourself ;)
Those are national or at the least very large area commercials that get cut short. Companies who pay to have their commercials show over all of the regions that a particular cable company caters to sometimes get overwritten by "local" commercials. These spots cost less but won't show up everywhere, just a specific region. It sort of just plays over whatever commercial is on the national broadcast :)
The biggest thing that would happen: Water absorbs heat better than soil and ice, water also holds onto heat longer than soil and ice. So the less ice and soil, the more water surface area, the more heat stored, the faster the planet continues to heat up. It's like when you start a fire in the trash can, but then the curtains catch on fire and because the curtains are on fire the walls, roof, desk and bed also catch on fire. > Let's say all the ice melted, all the coastal cities are gone Secondly it's possible the ocean won't rise at all. Ice is less dense than water. It takes up more volume. But the mass of the ice doesn't change when it becomes water. Only its volume and density, meaning that water will not likely rise very much if at all, since the water is already supporting the mass of the ice. The reason water would rise is if the polar ice caps are land at the bottom with massive stores of Ice on top of them *Edit: Instead of just giant floating islands of ice.* The biggest threat of global warming is just a change of weather from the status quo. It doesn't sound like that big of a deal, but the problem is that ecosystems around the world will be forced to change much faster than normal, meaning Evolution may not have the time to keep up. It will likely be very uncomfortable for a large percentage of the population, possibly even causing many plagues/famines/wars/etc but for the most part, people would likely be able to adapt, even if it knocks out 99% of the population, humans will likely survive global warming just based on how far spread we are and the ingenuity of humans. We're the only species in the known universe to be able to live anywhere on our planet (and off our planet as well).
Because parents have made peanut allergies more prevalent by not giving peanuts to their kids because they're scared they have a peanut allergy. It **is** a bit random. Basically, the immune system is always on the hunt for invaders. Antibodies, which bind to stuff to flag it as bad, are made in a mutation-heavy process, so you can constantly make new types to bind to different stuff. There are all kinds of checkpoints to prevent this from going haywire, but hey, nobody's perfect. As a rule, the immune system hates unknown proteins worse than anything. The most common food allergies are protein-rich: Peanuts, tree nuts, milk, fish, shellfish, eggs, soy, and wheat (the allergy is to gluten, the main protein.) Proteins can have very large and complicated structures that present all kinds of potential targets to the immune system, while things like fats and carbohydrates are way simpler. Why do immune systems tend to particularly hate some proteins, and really flip out about peanuts? We're still figuring that part out. The immune system basically works by touch on a very small scale, and some things just sort of feel suspicious. Some proteins are harder to chop up in the digestive system, which makes them more likely to cause trouble. It also depends on how you're exposed. Proteins that are eaten are viewed with much less suspicion than those that show up in the blood suddenly. As for peanuts specifically, it's been suggested that boiled or fried peanuts are less likely to provoke the immune system than dry roasted peanuts, which is the most common style in the United States. Couldn't tell you why. I live in Argentina (South America). I have never seen anyone with peanuts alergy. May be we've followed [Lois CK advice]( URL_0 ).
Arguably there is no interest. The action scenes are *meant* to be loud for the purpose of sensory overload. Such a feature will simply cause a loundness arms race and attempts at trickery. A lot of media player softwares have a feature called "volume normalization" which tries to make all of the audio played in a media file near the same volume. It's been around a long time, but for some reason you don't see it often on TV's or stereo receivers. A HUGE part of this is inadequate (or non-) mix down from 5.1 Surround to Stereo. A typical result is, dialogue is _very quiet._ Then, music or effects BLOW YOUR GODDAMN WALLS OUT. Since most of TV is programmed in Surround, this is not always super easy to fix. Some TV do have a master mix down to Stereo function. But if not... you have to do it outboard. In music production lingo, what you're looking for would be called a dynamic range compressor. They're used a lot with popular music to make it sound brighter, crisper, and louder, as well as to make it easier to hear over the din of an automobile or a bar. Dynamic range compression is an unpopular technique with audiophiles since its overuse can take away from the impact and fidelity of a piece of music, and even cause unwanted distortion in extreme cases. I've often wondered why consumer audio systems don't just come with compressors built in, so the users can dial in the amount of compression they want. Personally, I'd end up using it a lot more for movies and television than for music. It is a feature some audio systems have, but my best guess as to why they aren't standard is due to cost reasons, and because the general public doesn't know what it is. Another theory is that the music industry doesn't want people owning their own compressors, so that they can continue waging the loudness war and finding new ways to make their music stand out on the radio. The problem only happens for those listening multichannel track on stereo. all BD players I've touched have this option called "nightmode" or "Dynamic Range Control". Though to have more control I downmix tracks on-the-fly while watching movies with the help of ffmpeg custom downmix matrix. I have two settings, "normal" and "night", boosting the dialog even further in the latter case. go check the link for starters: URL_0 THIS. And "shaky cam" . And the modern acceptance of "actors" who, unlike those on stage, do not project their voices, or attempt to be understood. The hip thing is to speak as fast as possible , and that shit just ain't for the public, who don't know or share your inflection. I admit to hearing loss , but people don't ever seem to grasp that just turning up the volume doesn't work ; then the loud sounds HURT . I have to use subtitles, and they are often a disaster, becsuse they can flash on and off faster than they can be read. The idea that sudden loud noises, recording airplane engines , or high pitched wailing sound tracts, or shacking the camera results in fine art is a lie. It is a way to cover for the LACK of art. I use an outboard audio compressor/limiter with heavy compression. It is intended to be used with live sound but works great on dynamic films. The worst is when all is quiet... a character will slowly move towards an object, say a door. Ever so gingerly begin easing the door open... suddenly BBBWWWWAAAAAAAAMMM. The Michael Bay foghorn produces so much bass you can hear the dishes rattling. It's not even an action scene, like why in the fuh is there so much bass. Buddy is literally just walking in a straight line... ^^can ^^^you ^^^^hear ^^^^^me. *panting heavily*^^^I ^^^have ^^^something ^^^really ^^^important ^^^to ^^^tell ^^^you *stares at camera*^^BBBBWWAAA AAAAMMMMMMM. *paintings fall of the walls* This already exists : It's called [Dynamic range compression]( URL_0 ) If you have a home theater receiver, this may be called different things such as "Midnight mode", "Dynamic Range Compensation", or "Adaptive Range Control" or other buzz phrases. But it's all the same thing. (It makes the loud parts quiet, and the quiet parts loud) EDIT: To answer your second question, it's usually a feature on most receivers, but not all of them. It is also usually disabled by default because people usually want the loud/quiet experience which is true to the source material, and not the compressed experience. That would be awesome. I'd really, REALLY like music volumes to be normalized when streaming. And I'd like to personally kill every single sound tech that works in live shows that makes it so you cannot hear the singer over the music.
If you're asking about when your browser asks you if you want to save a password, it's saving it inside your browser's memory or inside your browser company's cloud-based databases. If you're asking about when you have an account on some website, they store all of your account information inside a database, which is basically just a fancy spreadsheet.
Money. They need the income to fund the continued development of the game. This is a practice that software developers have been using for a very long time. It is not just games either but OS and network gear. They all do some amount of 'sell to fund' and it doesn't seem to hurt them because people still are buying. Let's say your boss gives you an assignment you need to get done by Friday. Thursday comes, and you know that it won't be done - you go to your boss and explain, but they insist that they need whatever you've got by Friday, because your assignment needs to go out to partner companies and other branches due to agreements and contracts. It works the same largely with games. For an example, let's go with Dragon Age 2. The game is *developed* by BioWare, but *published* by EA. EA is the "boss" in this scenario - they told BioWare, the "employee," that they needed the game done by a certain release date. This is due to contracts with retail stores, advertisers, partners, etc. Despite the fact that the game was released with many flaws and a lot had to be cut, they had a strict deadline they had to meet, or the team could potentially be fired. The other reasons for set release dates can vary. They might want to get in the holiday rush, compete with a new console release as a sort of package deal, be bound by an exclusivity contract with a certain platform, or want to avoid crashing into other games they're developing (if a company has two blockbuster titles, it's better to release them apart than to have them both come out at once and have their audience split between them). If it's an online game, things like servers might come into play - you're paying for the server from a certain date, and if the game isn't out you're just throwing the money away. In certain very egregious examples, or if the developer and publisher are on good terms or are close enough, you might get a delay instead. If a game literally just will not work, they can delay it. Or if you have a smaller publisher that works more closely, they might understand. But the AAA companies tend to want what they want when they want it - and they have so much clout and name recognition that people will go out and buy it no matter how broken it is.
You want to wear whichever is better at getting moisture away from your skin on the inside, and the insulating layer on the outside. A thin technical sock covered by a thicker wool sock is your best bet. If, however, the thinner layer is your waterproof sock, wear that on the outside... I don't know why it would be, but it's something to consider. If both socks are cotton, then it doesn't matter because they're equally worthless at long-term heat. the thinner should go on first, then the thicker. The thicker one is likely wool or a material like it that will need to be able to fill space to work properly. If you were to put the thinner on outside of the thick, it could reduce the insulative(?) property of the thick sock by constricting it.
Lego blocks have many different sizes. So let's say the smallest piece the machines can make is a 2x8 brick. You can only fit so many of those on a big flat plate. That's your 500 mb stick. Now technology improves and the machines get better and can now make 2x2 bricks. You can now fit 4 times as many on the same big plate. This would like a 2gb stick. Miniaturization and better computing power to control the machines now allows them to reliably make 1x1 Lego bricks. You can now stick 4 times as many on our big plate. This is a 8 gb USB. Tldr. Better machines that make machines that make smaller machines that make faster machines cause production to be faster, cheaper, and better every generation. When applying this to computers, where every 2 or so years is a generation, everything is obsolete faster and faster. There's a few things, but one big change how small we can actually build the parts that sit on that chip. In the 1970s, the transistors on embedded circuits were 10 micrometers across. That's **tiny**. But by 2004, we'd hit 90 nanometers. To save you the conversion that's 9,910 nanometers smaller. In 2016 year Samsung hit 14nm across, and will probably be able to do 10 in 2017. The result is that since we can build stuff even more ridiculously tiny-er-er, we can start to squeeze a lot of the same basic structures that make up memory circuits and the like into smaller spaces, which means we can fit a lot more **of** them onto one chip.
A lot of learning in school is more to teach general problem solving skills and giving a wide breadth of knowledge even if it isn't particularly deep in any particular topic. For example, after a certain point, you *won't* use a lot of particular math concepts in your day-to-day life (work *or* home) but in learning how to do these things you also learn problem solving skills. Long term: while in school, you have no idea what you might use in the future. You are not receiving "useless" information, you just haven't found a way to use it. Short term: Often, smaller items are stepping stones to more knowledge. It's the base upon which continued education is built. You may also internalize some lessons so deeply that you don't even realize you are using them.
Well the biggest one is that humans require water for almost every bodily function, so by drinking water we prevent dying. Humans are around 60% water. Water is used in every cellular function and reaction. We lose water continuously through everything we do (sweat, urine). It continuously needs to be replenished for us to be able to perform the normal bodily processes to survive. Drinking sufficient amounts of water help metabolic processes greatly, in a superficial way can help with weight loss, skin, immune responses, COUNTLESS advantages. Very beneficial, 10/10 recommend 😉 I assume you mean water rather than other liquids, since I'm *pretty* sure you know humans need water to survive. Water is the purest form of, well, water. So drinking it in that form is the most efficient way to get water. It is also considerably healthier than many popular beverages. One additional thing not mentioned yet is that the body isn't that good at telling the difference between hunger and thirst. Often when you feel hungry during the day, you snack. Often that snack is something unhealthy (chips, candy, etc). So one benefit of staying well hydrated is not having false hunger pangs and not smacking unnecesarily.
Hoarding *is* an obsessive-compulsive disorder. OCD basically makes your brain do a lot of very incorrect If-Then statements. "If I leave the house without doing my ritual, something bad will happen!" and that type of stuff. Hoarding is pretty much the same. "I'm going to need this empty soda bottle someday so if I throw it away people could die!" With OCD, you feel anxiety if you don't do something. It may be an unfocused anxiety, or it could be specific, like my children will die if I don't wash my hands enough. Hoarding is a form of this. People feel a need to accumulate things, and feel and irrational anxiety at the thought of getting rid of them. OCD stands for obsessive compulsive disorder. Obsessions are things people think about over and over again in this case bad things. For example, in a classic case of OCD, someone thinks, if my hands are dirty I'll get myself sick or my family sick and we'll die and I'll never forgive myself". These thoughts often sound 'crazy', but people with ocd know the thoughts are crazy, and they know it's highly unlikely to happen. Then, a compulsion is something a person with ocd does to relieve the anxiety and panic brought on by the thoughts. So, 'ill get my family sick, so now I'm washing my hands now repeatedly to get rid of the germs" these rituals are done until the anxiety is relieved which is why they can wash their hands for hours or until it feels 'just right'. Now compare this to hoarding, these people obsess about their things, and guaranteed it's almost all they think about. Obsessive thought might be: "i can't throw this thing out because it will definitely come in handy and if I get rid of it something bad might happen if I need it and I'll never forgive myself for throwing it out when I need it most and the object will be upset with me (even though I know it won't) or the object reminds me of my daughter so if I throw it away something bad will happen to her etc etc" you get the message, and the compulsion is to not throw or give it away, ever. If it's hard to imagine, think about something you own that's very useful and that you like, and imagine someone trying to take it away from you. Now imagine that feeling x10 and with every single object you own or buy or get as a gift. That's why it's a disorder.
Everything you can see has a real color. Silver is just gray, but it's surface is also shiny. We decided to not call it "shiny gray" but "silver." Because it's used often enough to need its own name. If you're talking about like the shiny silver that I think you are then... kind of? Think of it as more of a shade. Silver is just the metallic shine off the color grey. If you were to take a very shiny silver ingot and put dirt and take away the shine then it'd turn out to be more grey. So if you'd like to call a different shading of grey (in this case a shiner version) a color then yes it is.
Here's the thing - Football is only actually about 150 years old, and the NFL itself not even 100. So many of these teams are fairly new. It's also a larger focus on the *team*, not the *location*. People don't root for New England, they root for the Patriots. They don't root for Philadelphia, they root for the Eagles. I'm going to make a slight assumption here, and I don't mean to offend. But I've found a lot of people from Europe tend to misunderstand just how *big* America is. There are 32 teams in the NFL, that's not even one *per state*. It's one team for every 5,000 square miles or so. Contrast to England, where in the Premier league *alone* we have 20 teams, which goes to about 1 for every 2,500 square miles - and that's not counting all of the other levels in the system (I'm not super familiar with it, this is just sort of a quick cursory search). And because the states are so much further apart, the idea of rooting for a team becomes less focused on location and more on the team itself - while you might root for some due to proximity, that's not always the case. Someone rooting for the San Fransisco 49ers from halfway across the country isn't going to suddenly be up in arms if they move cities, because it's so far away from them that they don't really know anything about the locale - they know about the team. The people in the host city often are very upset. But they do not own the team. Fans that live across the country really do not care as they are not local and watch on tv anyway. Additionally professional sports has less community ties in the US than in the UK, at least with our football vs your football. The role of local team is filled by our High School and College teams, not the closest professional team that may be 6 or 7 hours drive away (multiple hundreds of miles). For example. I went to a small High School in Texas. The school served a population of around 8,000 people including all small towns and ranch land incorporated into the school district, with only around 4,000 people living in the town proper where the school was located. We averaged 3,000 people in attendance on the home team side per game. It is not uncommon for the University of Texas in Austin to have more than 100,000 people attending their games. Oh we do have a problem! At least in Baltimore we hold onto a grudge of the Colts being SNUCK OUT IN THE MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT on Mayflower moving trucks. This happened in 1984 and people STILL reference it like it was yesterday. Plus, Americans move a lot anyway. I've moved 14 times. My daughter has moved 9 times in the past 4 years! We're just not as geographically rooted as some other cultures. If an iconic team that's very closely tied to a certain city, like the Pittsburgh Steelers or the Green Bay Packers were even rumored to move, there'd be riots. Other teams tend to move more often. The Rams started out in Cleveland, then moved to Los Angeles, then to St Louis, and then headed back to Los Angeles this year. The Oakland Raiders started out in Oakland, moved to Los Angeles, then moved back to Oakland, and is now rumored to move to Las Vegas. The NFL truly is a business. Team owners look for profits. If they don't make a big enough profit in one city, they might move somewhere else. In the US, college, and sometimes high school, sports teams fill the niche that you're describing. So, we're no too upset when pro teams move since we still have the local college team that isn't going anywhere. One of the reasons why team is being moved is money(probably the only reason). SO if team fail to make enough revenue it means that people arent interested in team and there wont be a problem moving team somewhere where market is better. And its not just football, baseball - Montreal Expos became washington Nationals because they couldnt fill up arena. In hockey Atlanta Trashers to Winnipeg because hockey didnt appeal to people in city where football and basketball was more popular. Basketball i cant name any tham because i ddont really follow it, but i do remember some team moved somewhere.
Your eye muscles (muscles in the eye that control the lens ), when relaxed, are naturally focused on what is far away. The eyes also have to turn slightly towards each other to be able to see things that right close to the face. This takes energy and eventually the eyes get tired. Generally speaking, your eyes focus to infinity when they are relaxed and it takes a small amount of effort to focus in on something closer. For this reason it's more pleasant to watch a screen that is far enough from your eyes to be at infinity focus.
The minimum amount of effort/skill needed to play a character/role. If a character/role has a high skill floor, they're pretty hard to play at even a basic level. For example in Dota2 there's a hero called Meepo. To play Meepo you have to control 5 different units, and therefore he's very difficult to play at even the basic level due to the increased level of micromanagement. Skill floor is the opposite of skill ceiling. Where as the skill ceiling is the skill level required to play a game or perform a task at the maximum efficiency the skill floor is the minimum skill required to even perform said play or task. Level ratings such as casual, easy, hard, expert, are skill floor ratings, not ceilings, because these identify the difficulties all players will face while playing on those level settings. As such the performance level of a player will also affect how well the player plays at other difficulty ratings, e.g. a player that plays at or above the expert level potentially can play lower levels easier or more efficiently than a casual player can play higher more difficult levels.
Most likely, the wound from the first bite swells up -- inflammation is the body's reaction to injury. So that means there is now a feature if your tongue that is both unfamiliar and larger. You'll learn to compensate for it in the next few hours, most likely, giving it time to heal and for the swelling to go down.
Your gradually become acclimated to your environment and develop sensory bias. In ELI5 terms: Consider the following - you grew up in New York City and your friend in Death Valley. If you guys were to switch places, immediately your friend would complain about the snow and you would complain about the 120F weather. But back home, no issues at all. This is because your body got used to the environment it was in. You live in a specific house so your body gets used to all the smells, feels, sights, etc that were common to your house but not when it comes to a different house you are not used to. This happens to most senses people have (like me, I absolutely hate the feel of sandpaper but a wood worker would be able to touch it and maybe even distinguish the grit of what he is touching). Your nose shouts constantly to the brain what it is smelling. After a point your brain gets bored of the same shouting and ignores it. New shouting it tells you about, of course. Same as your nose. Your eyes can always see your nose between them but your brain ignores this same information and doesn't tell you about it. Personally I like the term coined by a Febreeze commercial - "nose blind". After being around a certain smells for extended lengths of time, you go nose blind to it. This is also the reason people overly apply perfume/cologne, don't know they stink etc. It is due to sensory adaptation - stimuli (in this case smell) becomes less intense because of constant exposure to it. This is so that our brains can "concentrate" on gathering new information. I can smell my house whenever I come back from a long weekend or longer. I can also smell my parents house now, but I couldn't when I lived there. As with all our senses, our brains slowly ignore things that are constant so we can notice things that are more important. (New things, moving things, etc)
The first commentor has it spot on but I would definitely like to double down on the notion that the science is young. It definitely is, we learn new things every day. When it comes to our bodies there is still a lot we don't know and sometimes we find out that certain cells interact with certain things in ways we didn't realize before. For example my first year of college I took anatomy and phyisology, after the first semester had ended we had to buy a new version of the textbook because some cutting edge genetic information had just been solidified and it was important to our understanding of the body. This filters out into the other sciences as well. Also, sometimes we perform long-term studies that take many years to realize that what we are using/doing is harmful. Take asbestos as an example. We used to use it in *everything* because it was cheap, flame resistant, and had many many other properties that were desirable. It was until much later that we realized that asbestos caused a good deal many health defects in humans and so had to complete revise construction techniques and methods. This also applies to things like nutrition, we find things out after studying long-term effects that don't match with what we already know and have to change it. Food studies scholar here. It mainly depends on where culture stands at the time. If people think that certain things are clean and that health is defined a certain way, then dietary advice will follow. Take bread for example: brown bread used to be considered the stuff peasants ate and it wasn't healthful. In the middle of the 20th century, people thought that white foods were cleaner and therefore healthier. Now, white bread, white rice, and white sugar have been abandoned in favor of brown bread, brown rice, and raw sugar. Peasant foods are now good for you. New science also changes things. As we learn more about how the human body works, we can better judge how food affects the body. Brown fat, for example, did not exist in the imagination in the 19th century, when moderation and bland foods were put forth as better for the body. There are also powerful lobbyists who make their case. Using scientific studies (that they may or may not have funded) they petition to shape how we think about food at the level of public policy. This scholar has a lot to say about the matter: URL_0 . Marion Nestle's book is at the bottom of the list and is quite thorough in its study of how food policy and public stances on nutrition are shaped--and by whom. I studied nutrition for several years before veering off into archaeology. I still have my textbook Nutrition: Concepts and Controversies, and it's that second one you want to focus on. The biggest Achilles heel in nutrition science is politics. Take the case of beef. Several decades ago the (I believe) USDA came right out and said "eat less red meat," in response to sound science, and the beef lobby sued like crazy. The revised advice became "reduce intake of lipid-rich proteins," which is nicely innocuous and also applies equally well to PEANUTS. The fact is the science is still very, very young, and meanwhile the politics of food have deep roots. Every time a new study that's both innovative and objective actually gets funded *and* published it's a goddamn miracle, and that'll be even more true in the next several years. So food officials jump on those studies like lions on a fat gazelle, and that's why things get massively shaken up from time to time. TL;DR - nutrition is a very new science and food is highly politicized, so new information will almost always be pretty game-changing. One additional issue is that nutrition is difficult to study in a controlled fashion. First, unlike testing a drug, where you can give the control group a placebo and the experimental group the active drug, you cannot give a control group no/placebo food. You have to replace the food you are trying to get experimental data on with some other food. Want to test the effects of eating saturated fats? You have to create a control diet that replaces those calories with something else (or you run into another experimental problem where a lower-calorie diet may be producing the results you see), and it's impossible to know the full extent of what replacing those calories does. Do you replace them with unsaturated fats? Carbohydrates? Diets also tend to be very heterogeneous. This can be a problem when people like to compare population-level data (epidemiological study rather than a controlled study). People looked at the "Mediterranean diet" and saw people eating more monounsaturated (and some polyunsaturated) fats, but they tended to ignore MANY confounding factors, even things that probably have a significant impact like eating more whole foods rather than processed foods and even differences in total calories. Scientists don't tend to set up highly controlled studies where people all eat the same foods, but rather eat whatever they want (or what they are supposed to eat/avoid) and then report back occasionally, with varying degrees of accuracy. Early research on fats didn't treat trans-fats as a separate category and lumped them in with saturated fats, which may have helped create stigma against saturated fats (although there were a lot of political headaches that go into this history). Finally, different organisms handle different foods and macronutrients differently! Yet people (especially media reporting a new study) will often take results from a mouse study as if it applies equally to humans or other animals. TL;DR nutrition is complex, heterogeneous, and difficult to control in large experiments, forcing us to rely on less rigorous methods. Dietitian here, also formerly worked at the USDA (the people who make the guidelines), also formerly worked as nutrition researcher (the people who do the science). The *science* isn't changing. If you look at all the scientific nutritional evidence in a row, it is going in a very clear direction and not swinging back and forth. More unbiased (well... not biased by big Agra) sources like WHO and AICR and even Kaiser Permanente have nutritional guidelines that are more steady and in sync with each other. The POLITICS are changing. The US Dietary Guidelines are frankly shitty. I sat in on those meetings. Pork people say you can't cut red meat. Sugar people say "ok you can say reduce grams of sugar but you can't actually say drink less sugar." Egg people point to a couple biased studies. Etc etc etc. If you read the recommendations from the committee of experts (the dietary guidelines advisory committee made up of experts in their fields) then the advice is good. Problem is that USDA refused to use most of that info in their published guidelines. Sigh. I was glad to leave that place right after the newest guidelines were released. Also JOURNALISM - they'll take any research with a sensational headline and blast it onto the internet without any consideration of whether or not it is good science or pure shit. I recommend you read "How Not to Die" for a nice, easy to understand, entertaining read of the real science. Or watch this video URL_0 **RANT** What pisses me off is the food pyramid went from [horizontal rows of foods]( URL_1 ?) and the portions they recommend to [vertical wedges]( URL_0 ) of those same proportions. The only reason a pyramid was chosen was because it's wide at the base and narrow at the top. So the foods you are supposed to have more of are at the bottom and the foods you are supposed to have less of are at the top. By making it into vertical wedges, you defeat the whole point of having a fucking pyramid. It could be the food square, a food circle or a food icosagon if you're just going to negate the shape of the overall object and divide it into unequal wedges. In addition to political issues, which have been well-covered, it's incredibly difficult to study human nutrition for the simple reason that you can't possibly control what someone eats 24/7. Every nutrition study has cheaters. It's not possible to know how they cheated, and therefore every study on the subject is subject to completely invisible skewing of the data. You could lock people in a facility and control what they eat that way, but that'd be unlikely to pass an ethics review. So, nutrition science is flying a bit more blind than other fields. Much of it has to do with the fact that back in the day, sugar lobbies paid off doctors and health officials to make it out like fat is the bad guy. When in fact, it is sugar and carbs which cause most of our dietary problems. The food pyramid we were all taught as kids is complete BS and will give you plenty of problems if you follow it strictly. These days you must research everything on your own if you want real knowledge. Don't discount the effect of powerful food lobbies. The American Egg Board, the US Poultry & Egg Council et. Al. fund a LOT of studies...all of which seem to confirm that eating more of THEIR particular product is good for you. This data is then used by researchers, cited to lawmakers, etc etc. The LESS flattering studies are buried forever. I don't know that the advice necessarily has changed that much. I mean, there's certainly pop science although I think that has a lot more to do with marketing. Things like saying margarine is better than butter for instance. Here's an excerpt form one of my old cookbooks called the Modern Encyclopedia of Cooking. It was published in 1947. This is just a random paragraph from the section on meal planning but this and the rest of the book doesn't sound very different at all from advice you would hear now. "To reduce small amounts of fat it is only necessary to cut down sharply on concentrated fuel foods (sugars starches and fats), being sure to meet all the other requirements of the basic four food groups. However a reducing diet should include enough fat to curb the appetite and carry a sufficient amount of fat soluble vitamins and essential fatty acids. Otherwise a person is likely to nibble between meals and often food available at such times, especially if one is away from home, are likely to be high in calories. By dieting correctly in this fashion, a new habit of eating will be cultivated which will hold over after dieting is no longer necessary." Because it's a bunch of Bullshit pushed through by lobbyists. Anecdotal but I was on a low sugar high fat diet (healthy fats) and I never felt so mentally clear in my life. I could also comfortably get by eating once or twice a day. Love this thread. This reminds me of the geochemist Patterson and his fight to get lead banned from food containers and other products. He was constantly fighting against so called experts who had vested interests. Another thing that royally ticks me off is the serving labels. Companies blatantly getting away with stating that there are 3.5 servings in what is obviously a 1 serving size chocolate bar is ridiculous. The thrust is that we don't really understand human nutrition, and the attempts at doing honest, scientific research on nutrition through the 20th century has been bogged down in prejudice and confirmation bias, as well as good-intentions. For a longer answer, I highly recommend [The Big Fat Surprise by Nina Teicholz]. ( URL_0 ) It is an extraordinary piece of journalism about nutrition science through the 20th century. It focuses on how we came to vilify fat of all kinds, but it is extremely illuminating about how nutrition science itself has functioned (and malfunctioned). It clearly explains how the field has become so muddled with information, how it is currently trying to self-correct, and how the reader can be better informed about understanding health claims. Although, I don't strictly think a five-year old could read the book. At least, not your average five-year old.... You want super simply advice on what to eat that will out last all these changes? -eat real food -if it had eyes, eat it -if it came from the ground or a plant, eat it -if it doesn't have a food label, it's generally good for you; ie eat primarily single ingredient foods -eat a colorful diet; try 5 colors per meal -eat 6-8 fistfuls of vegetables a day -drink about 1/2 your bodyweight in ounces a day (ex: I'm about 170 lbs. I strive for 85oz of water a day.) - avoid anything that comes from a package as much as possible If you were to follow that advice 80%+ of the time, I'd be surprised if you weren't doing well. Add to that a little exercise, 7.5-9 hours of sleep, some stress management techniques, and a community to belong to and you'll grow to be a centenarian. The quick answer is the science keeps changing, the more bitter answer is that a ton of corporate interest changed official policy for decades. Remember "breakfast is the most important meal of the day", and "cereal x is part of a well balanced diet". They went past slogans, they did "funny" research and pressured government to literally build the food pyramid based on it. Now people are questioning, so more actual science is happening, so things keep changing. As for flip flops, that's often media sensationalized. Gluten is somewhere between non-reactive and deadly to each person. You and I are on that continuum somewhere. My wife is mild celiac, she essentially gets the effects of food poisioning if she "gets glutened" as she puts it. Me, i get a big sluggish, but i had it for every meal so i didn't notice. So people said wait a minute, gluten could hospitalize that guy there, it must be terrible for me!! Then it was a panic, and some people went off gluten and went... wow i do feel a little better, and swear by it, but it's just that they're 2's on that nonreactive to death scale and someone else might be a 0, where's perfectly fine. Hence the swings I do adherence for a nutritional research study. Basically I look at the subjects food journals and record if they're eating their prescribed amount of calories and the right amount of the food we're researching. I've looked at thousands of weekly journals and it's very rare that people actually adhere to these guidelines. From what I've seen, it's extremely difficult to maintain a viable control group and almost impossible to isolate a variable. Most of the subjects shouldn't even be apart of the study anymore, but sites are momentarily motivated to keep them on. I've lost all confidence in the validity of nutritional studies. It's harder to control in experiments. Nobody would volunteer to stay in a facility 24/7 long enough to study so it's all self reported. And people almost always underestimate things and they forget snacks they eat through out the day. The show Secret Eaters touches on why self reporting is so inaccurate. Better and newer scientific studies can lead to changing guidelines, but lobbying efforts can also play a role. Also a lot of it is translating nuance to general guidelines that the average person can understand, not an easy task. The Harvard School of Public Health has a great website called [Nutrition Source]( URL_0 ) which has detailed nutritional guides and nutritional information; it's all based on science. I know I'm late, and /u/pctech86 mostly has it covered, but I wanted to add one more part to why I think these guidelines struggle: These sorts of guidelines tend to just offer a one-size fits all set of rules for everyone, in the interest of simplicity. Even though nutrition is still an immature science, we know that this is simply not the case - Nutrition is an individual trait that is as unique as the rest of our body. Some people will be okay with more of something than others. We all know people who eat a tonne of fast food and have no problems, whereas some people eating the same will become obese or have other troubles. Trying to fit everyone into a single set of guidelines will never fully capture proper nutrition, and will help lead to this constant pivoting in nutritional recommendations. The guidelines change based on which industry is greasing the wheels. It used to be that fat is bad when the sugar industry paid for research. Now sugar is the enemy, and who knows in the next 5 years maybe we'll "discover" all protein is carcinogenic. All of this exists to mask a simple a truth. There is no obesity epidemic. There is only a shit food and sedentary lifestyle epidemic. Our grandparents didn't need crossfit or paleo diets to keep in shape. They ate healthy food and moved a lot. But it's hard to solve those problems now, when all the food you can buy in a supermarket is basically poison and all the jobs involve sitting on your ass in front of a computer. Most Diet tips are scams. Listen to this: all you have to do it eat at or below your maintenance caloric intake (about 2500 calories or less per day for most people depending on body weight and metabolism) and make sure you balance the three macro nutrients, (fat, proteins, carbs) evenly balanced in thirds is good or even better higher protein and fat and only about 20% carbs. (Yes liquid sugar drinks like soda and juice count as carbs) but other than that you can eat anything, as long as you're below the maintence intake, when you go above your body gets into a state of caloric excess and stores the extra stuff as fat. Congratulations you just beat every diet fad, pill, fat burner, schedule, etc. on the planet. Make sure you include good vitamin rich food as well for good micro nutrients and better health.
It's very descriptive as a language and isn't any countries major language any more, so there's less political tension than if it were in English , French, Italian etc. Moreover most science of the time would have been written in Latin, like Newton's Principia. I think it's so no matter where you are from you know what animal or plant you're talking about. Many animals and plants have different names in different countries it would be easy for them to get confused. Using Latin the name is understandable to all scientists. The current taxonomic (naming) system was created by a guy called Linnaeus. When you see the Latin written for an animal's name, it's just *"Genus, Species,"* instead of the whole *kingdom, phylum, class, order, family, genus, species.* The *species* part of the name isn't necessarily Latin anymore. It's often just a "Latinization" of a place where it was discovered or the name of the person that discovered it. I asked my biology professor this same question and she said the main reason is because it is essentially a "dead" language and will not change over time like active language terms and descriptions do. As a dead language, the meaning of something named in Latin has no real risk of changing over time. It is an established practice. The language is not a vernacular language of any country so confusion is not likely. The language is fairly descriptive, and the naming practices have component parts that deliver information in how they are put together. It would be difficult to make sure different language speaking people were speaking of the same species without a "lexicon" so to say. So at some point someone (im not gonna guess, because i fear i might remember wrong and im sick rn so my brain is a bit out of order too) put it all in order and and gave every species a latin name (two names). It is easy to catalogue them this way. Edit: It was Linne. Scientific names should be derived from Latin(usually) or Greek languages because they are DEAD languages i.e. their is no change in words, no new words added or old words deleted also this language has no synonyms (imp) .
It used to be more useful back in the day. Before computers on the market came equipped with graphics processing and spreadsheet capabilities, everything was text based and you would often have to, for example, design your own data tables and such using a combination of spaces and characters like the `|` (pipe). If, for example, you needed to edit a cell in such a table, it was in many ways easier to simply navigate to that point and overwrite the existing text in the cell rather than using backspace/delete and messing with the table formatting. Also, keep in mind that computers originally did not have a mouse for user input; that didn't come until later. So selecting and removing multi-character or multi-word sequences was a lot more difficult. In many cases it was easier to simply type over the existing text characters than it was to spend the time/effort deleting them and starting over. That's the sole purpose of the insert key. To toggle between over type and insert mode. Insert mode being that characters are added without replacing existing characters It's largely vestigal. It's also relatively handy when working with code instead of say a word doc, since usually your code is separated by lines and you can just overwrite and not worry about trucking over your next bit of text. It's a feature that was handier and made more sense in the pre-mouse era.
What you feel as heat is not the temperature of the object, but how hot it's making *you*. This is why people can walk on hot coals - the coals are outrageously hot, but it takes them a while to transfer the heat -- so if you walk quickly, it's as if they're not hot at all. Similarly, metal left in the freezer isn't any colder than other things left in the freezer, but it transfers the cold really quickly, so *you* feel as if it's colder than everything else (because it's making you colder faster than everything else). All of this has to do with heat conductivity. Basically some things hold onto heat more than others. Things that don't hold onto heat well will feel like they're at a more extreme hotness/coldness than other objects of the same temperature, since they palm off that heat onto you (or absorb your heat) as fast as they can. Because they have a different conductivity. A material with a higher conductivity will transfer heat faster and the feeling of cold or hot is you losing or absorbing heat.
If the social media market starts to gravitate towards Snapchats or livestreams, etc it means users could use other platforms to share content and information which means they become less relevant. They are also working on different ways to monetize the live streaming with ads so they maintain revenue. This is revenue they lose if people use other networks to do accomplish the same goal. Essentially, they are trying to protect their market share in case social media transitions to into this new live space. Twitter created Periscope -- which has been letting users effortlessly host their own live streams for quite a while now. Facebook is trying to make up for lost ground.
Not in the way you're used to. In zero gravity, water will tend to pull itself into a floating sphere, unless it's completely contained, in which case you wouldn't have a surface to enter through. In a sphere of water, nothing would float, there's no up or down. Kicking and pushing will still move you through the water, but will also distort the water in unpredictable ways. There's no bottom to push off of, and staying on the surface might or might not be harder. The basic problem is that everything you're used to about how water works is based on the assumption of gravity. If those assumptions are gone, nothing will work the way it's supposed to, and it would be far to easy to end up drowning.
There's a thing called gravity that pulls things towards each other. When you fall from really high up, the earth is pulling you towards it (you're also pulling the earth but since it's *way* bigger you don't really move it, it can move you though). Now, when you fall, what are you going through? That's right! You're going through air. What's air made of? Lots of tiny particles. Now, the thing is, the faster you fall, the harder and often these little particles will hit you. You'll be going faster and faster until at some point, there will be so many particles hitting you so hard that they'll actually push you back with the same strength as gravity is pulling you down. So what now? One thing is pulling you down, and the other is pushing you up with the same strength. You can't go faster *or* slower. So you fall at *terminal velocity*. Terminal means final, and the speed at which you're falling is the final speed you can go since there aren't other forces that will help you change it. Are we supposed to take the 5 in ELI5 seriously, though? its just the balance point where the drag from the atmosphere equals the force of gravity. you can of course alter drag based on the shape/orientation of the object.
Cheese ages with controlled temperature & humidity. It is often allowed to grow a rind or sealed in wax that keeps bad stuff out. When you cut it into blocks in your fridge, you lose the protective layer & humidity controls, exposing the cheese to microorganisms that want to eat it. Ripening cheese is protected in some way. Usually, there is the dry cheese rind that is impenetrable for bacteria. Often, ripening cheese is treated (on the outside) with a salty liquid or paste which makes it even harder for bacteria to get into the cheese. But when you cut it open, the inner cheese is unprotected and, hence, can be attacked by bacteria and mold.
Lets say you want to buy a company, but the "owner" doesn't want to sell to you. You say fine, screw you, I don't need your approval. Like kyrstar said, if the "owner" doesn't own more than 50% of the company that means you can buy up a controlling shares and force the sale. You actually don't even need to buy up a controlling amount, all you need is a controlling amount to agree with you. So say the "owner" owns 49% of the company, the rest of the 51% is split among different people. Technically you can come in, buy a single share, say 1%, and then get the remaining 50% to agree with you and vote your way. It's safer though to just buy up all of their shares so you own 51% and then you can just say, "Well we're selling this company to me and that's final." The "owner" has no choice now but to sell.
Anything that can cause you to change your focus allows you to change your train of thought. The act of shaking your head gives you something else to think about for a second to allow your brain to stop what it was working on previously and then move on to something else. Your brain is like an etch-a-sketch. When you shake it all the magnetic dust falls back into the bin so you can draw new stuff nobody wants to see.
Sometimes it is as simple as which sleep cycle you woke up from or plain ol' lack of sleep. I just hate mornings. I like to stay up late and sleep a little late. Even if I go to bed early, I wake up feeling all "bleh".
Hey there, pharmacist here. The most general way to understand the skin, drug absorption, lotions, and so forth is to think about how oil and water don't (easily) mix. To cross the skin barrier from outside of your skin to the inside, generally any molecule has to cross an outer lipophilic layer (which likes fat), then through a hydrophilic layer (which likes water), and then through an inner lipophilic layer. Some transdermal (across the skin) delivery systems can even increase the permeability of the skin, making it easier for molecules to get across. To address your initial question with creams and lotions, remember oil and water. The goal is to increase hydration or rather, to avoid moisture loss. So lotions on a basic level restore water. And if you put something occlusive (a lipophilic barrier like a layer of Vaseline, creams which have oils and fats in them to do the same, a bandage, etc.), you basically trap water in your skin. This is why lotions and creams work better if you put them on when your skin is still damp from a shower or bath - you trap more moisture. Hope this helps! The main way that it works is that instead of liquid from your skin evaporating, the lotion evaporates instead. There are more factors involved, but they serve mostly as a barrier. Bonus eli5, explain how DMSO works. (Dimethyl sulfoxide) is a transport agent not quite approved for human use, but works great in animals for getting medicine through the skin into the muscles and joints. It is so effective that even trace chemicals, like your own hand cream, can make it through during application. Your skin isn't a solid barrier. The top most layer allows for substances to move through it and in to the bloodstream. Substances can also enter through hair follicles and pores (though to a lesser extent). URL_0 Even Garlic and Onions contain chemicals that go through the skin... you don't need to look too far. Put garlic between your toes. In roughly an hour you should develop garlic breath. Most creams do not get through the skin. The skin is almost impermeable, and medicines have to be designed especially to penetrate. Things like cocoa butter etc only affect the top layers of skin, and do very little else. This is a good thing. Remember the rhyme: Skin skin It keeps me in. But-is-impermeable-to-most-substances-unless-the-particles-are-sufficiently-low-molecular-weight. Skin. I'm assuming that you are asking about how moisturizers work, and not the mechanism whereby how cells in your skin actually pull moisture into your body. There are 2 kinds of moisturizers. The first is occlusive, which is a physical barrier preventing moisture from escaping. (Petroleum jelly, oils, silicones etc.) The second type is humectant, which draws moisture towards itself. (Glycerin, hyaluronic acid etc.) Most moisturizers in the market are composed of a mixture of occlusive and humectant ingredients so that moisture gets actively attracted to the surface of your skin and gets trapped by the occlusive barrier, unable to escape back out into the air. Absorbed through your pores. For your face it mostly only needs to affect the fat and skin cells in the immediate area (moisturizer for your face obviously doesn't effect your arms). As for patches and medications they will get into your bloodstream.
We're using the amino acids that make up the proteins to produce new proteins. Digestion denatures them if cooking didn't. And cooking chicken does denature some proteins. The gooey white stuff you see on chicken breasts sometimes when you cook them is mostly coagulated proteins. They do, and that is how we absorb them. Whole proteins are way too big to be absorbed into your bloodstream through the cells that line your intestine - they just physically wouldn't fit. Your stomach contains specific enzymes, called proteases, which cut the proteins apart into their individual components, called amino acids. These are small enough to be absorbed by your body, and those then get used by your cells to build new proteins.
I am not a physicist, but I once asked a physicist to explain to me this very thing. Below is a reformulation of what he told me: What does it mean that there are more than 3 spatial dimensions, and what does it mean that they are "curled up very small"? Imagine you're a billiard ball, living on the surface of table where the cover is on. Above you, just barely touching you, is the bottom of the cover. Below you is the felt. You and I know your world is 3D, but you perceive it as 2D, forward/backward and left/right. You and I know that the felt is not evenly compressible, so when a billiard rolls over it in a straight line, the balls moves ever so slightly up and down. This up and down motion though, is too small for you in billiard-ball-world to observe. You don't ever think about this though, because your 2D physics completely explains all interactions between other billiard balls that you observe. Now let's take it one step further. Imagine you're a billiard ball physicist. Just as before, your 2D physics completely explains all the interactions between billiard balls you observe. Your "bouncing-off-bumpers" theories explain how balls change angle and slow down when they hit a bumper, and your "just-slowing-down" theories explain how balls are always slowing down a little bit, even when they don't hit a bumper. You can very accurately predict where a ball will go by putting these two theories together. Many of your billiard ball colleagues are unsatisfied with this situation though. Both of these theories involve billiard balls slowing down, but the theories themselves are separate. One day, a billiard ball physicist colleague comes to you with a crazy idea. This colleague says that they can unify the two theories of billiard ball movement if you imagine that a ball slowing down results from that ball losing energy to the surface that it's directing a force against. However, this unified theory requires that there is a force pressing balls _down_ against the felt. Down is not a direction that exists! The theory only works if there is a _third dimension_. You and I know your world is 3D and has the dimension up and down, but you, as a billiard ball physicist, cannot perceive this dimension. The hypothetical existence of this dimension though, allows for a theory of billiard ball physics that is simpler, more general, more elegant, and thus more appealing than the two separated theories. This is a great question, but it's also really tough to answer because any in-depth explanation very quickly ascends to levels of terminology that sound like technobabble. The simplest answer is that the math requires the extra dimensions to explain the interaction of the quantum (subatomic) world with the macro (atoms, molecules and larger) world, to model them and the underlying rules they follow. This is obviously the least satisfying, because it's like a parent saying "because I said so". To back up a bit, it's important to redefine the term dimension. We think of dimensions as basically "something you can measure" - length, width, height. In physics terms, they kinda are that, but kinda not. It's easier to think of them as ways of defining a specific parameter or quality of an object. Our main three dimensions define an object's size, which is easy to make sense of. It can also be a way of defining how an object moves through space. With String Theory, you're trying to explain the movement of and interactions with subatomic particles, some of which are very strange. All of these extra dimensions are not physical ones, but are said to be 'wrapped up at the subatomic level', which I think of as meaning they can't be measured with a ruler because they don't define a given space. They're not defining a physical thing, the way length, width and height do. What they do is allow subatomic particles to behave the way they do - [tunnel through barriers they 'shouldn't' be able to]( URL_1 ), or the good ol' thing where they [act like waves and particles at the same time]( URL_0 ). Really, rather than "allow" we should say "explain why", but then "dimensions" is probably one of the most confusing terms they could have chosen for what was being described, because it relies on a definition of the term is that isn't the way most people think about it.\*\* If a subatomic particle tunnels through a barrier that it shouldn't be able to, but you recognize that there is an additional parameter that applies to both the particle and the barrier - say, they only exist 99.999999% of the time in our universe, but pop out to a higher plane of existence than the physical (for the record, this is an extreme example made to illustrate the point, not what particles necessarily do), then you can say they have a measure of 99.999999 in the 'existence' dimension (again, made up for the explanation). If you combine these two numbers, you get the one-in-a-trillion chance of a particle 'tunneling' through the barrier. It's also necessary to point out that ten dimensions is just the number that the kaluza-Klein Theory suggested (initially five, later ten). I've seen theories that extend to thirty dimensions. For the record, I don't believe that String Theory is what it purports to be. I am only a failed physicist, and the people who are working on it are *far* smarter than I am, so if there is an empirical right and wrong on the issue, you'd be better off betting on them to be right. I come to explain String Theory, not defend it. String Theory fails to simplify the discussion, though, which is what the entire search for the Grand Unified Theory is supposed to be. Ultimately, the answer to the Universe - if we can ever discover it - will never be something you can adequately ELI5. I don't think it will rely on purely mathematical constructs for its explanation, and I think it is the purest of hubris to think that we can go from discovering atoms and nuclear forces to unlocking their underlying principles in (on the scale of the universe) a fraction of a blink of an eye. *** \*\*Kinda like a scientific theory and a 'real world' theory - same underlying concept defining both terms, but they become very different things within their specific contexts. Mathematically, it has to do with group theory, more specifically representation theory of Lie groups. These things are tough to explain to someone without a background in these things, so I'll keep this short and not super precise: Symmetries are of fundamental relevance in physics for numbers of reasons. This goes so far that you can basically define a symmetry and some other stuff and determine all the physics of the system from that. Large parts of the standard model of particle physics were found this way. Mathemetically, these symmetries are expressed in groups. Now if we want to create a new, more general theory from our old ones it needs to reproduce all the symmetries the old theory has. So mathematically we are looking for dimensions where there are relatively simple (read: small) symmetry groups that contain all the symmetries we know. It so happens that 10 is the smallest dimension where there is a [Majorana-Weyl spinor]( URL_0 ) which is a good candidate for a number of reasons. Most common string theories use this or related symmetry transformations. String theories are then sort of constructed such that they have the imposed symmetry. So you start with 10 dimensions because your symmetries are nice there, and build the string theory around it - not the other way round. Yo man, I respect this subreddit, but string theory might be a little too ambitious for ELI5. Very few "like you're 5" answers available on this topic. I'll take my best swing. forget what you know about dimensions and think of a video game being played by a kid holding a controller. The character in the video game can move in all of the spatial dimensions it exists in, like us. Forward, back, side to side, up and down. So the kid finds a menu option called "timeline" and presses it. Now the kid sees a panorama of events that his character has experienced throughout the game. The difference between the player and the character is that the character has to experience the whole timeline event by event, while the player can see the timeline as a single object. Now you've moved up a dimension. We've collapsed direction, position, and time into an object that you can hold in your hands and manipulate. If you were able to hold a timeline in your hands like an object, you could change it and affect it like any other object you can interact with. Being able to interact with an entire 3 dimensional timeline as if it were an object would make the kid playing the game 4 dimensional. It gets weird when you start to consider that the entire environment that the kid playing the game exists in, must also be made up of existential versions of the ideas of existence similarly to how the character's three dimensional lifespan is simply an object in a fourth dimension. It is much easier to explain a timeline as a chain of events rather than to try and tell someone that every event in their life exists as a single object in a higher dimension. This is where math comes in. Mathematics and moreover physics deal with the footprints of these intangible creatures rather than the beasts themselves. And with our current understandings in mathematics, we see footprints which actually call for up to 11 dimensions. (including m-theory, there are 7, 10, or 11 expected dimensions). So it isn't so much that we've seen these 10-dimensional beasts making the footprints, it's more that we've seen footprints that must have been made by a 10-dimensional beast. The cynical answer--which is not the whole story but has some truth to it--is that 10 dimensions are simply what is required to make the math work out. This is the big knock against string theory: it's very elegant mathematically, but it's not super clear how much *physical* insight it gives. One very short and unsatisfying ELI5 answer is that if the number of dimensions is anything else, then certain undesirable infinities show up in the theory. Therefore the assumption of extra dimensions is made in order to avoid these bad things from happening. (The harder ELI5 is to explain why this assumption of extra dimensions is much more reasonable than a layperson would assume.) By the way, just to clarify a point: The number of dimensions depends on certain specifics of the theory. Bosonic string theory requires 26, superstring theory requires 10, and M-theory requires 11. Superstring theory is what most people mean when they simply refer to "string theory," since bosonic string theory is not realistic. However, superstring theory comes in various flavors, all of which are unified in some sense by M-theory. When we say that superstring theory has 10 dimenions, we mean 1 time dimension and 9 space dimensions, 3 of which are the ones we perceive and 6 of which are tiny, "compactified" spatial dimensions. Important caveat: I am not even remotely a string theorist. Edit: Maybe "undesirable infinities" is not the right phrase to use (though I suppose one can probably get away with calling it that). It's more like you need a particular undesirable term that shows up to be zero in order to have the required symmetry. This is a really great video explaining all the dimensions, this might give you the insight 'why' a 10th dimensions exists. URL_0 Wait, if I remember correctly from pchem, it's 11 dimensions. I don't know why, but I'm fairly certain it's 11. Can anybody speak to or correct me of this? Arguably the most important principle in theoretical physics is symmetry. The first question a theorist usually asks about a theory is "what are the symmetries of the theory?" Imagine holding a spherical ball in your hands. This ball has what we call rotational/spherical symmetry. Any way you rotate the ball, it will look exactly the same. Now imagine shrinking our spherically symmetric system down to a quantum mechanical size. Due to the funny nature of quantum mechanics, our system may no longer be spherically symmetric. When a system loses its symmetry upon quantization, we call the symmetry "anomalous". Now, string theory possesses a certain symmetry called Weyl/conformal symmetry. When we quantize our theory, we find that this Weyl symmetry is anomalous in every single dimension. EXCEPT in 10 dimensions. So basically, in order for string theory to have the symmetries that it should have, we must require a 10 dimensional universe.
Guys, I don't know why I can't see comments on my own page. I'm getting notified that people are commenting but WTF? I Can't see them.
Technically, we have to say "it depends", as all actual FDA-approved medicine was once herbal medicine that was studied for active ingredients, and we now know exactly what to extract that produces desired results. Eg; Your grandma's secret poppyseed bread may always remove pain because it's loaded with "milk of the poppy", aka Opium. Or that jar of mold she spreads on a cracker to cure your food poisoning is incindentally a raw version of penicillin. More than likely though, it's just placebo, or at least giving you vitamins and nutrients you haven't been eating because you hate your grandmother and don't eat your vegetables like a good boy. It's an old joke at this point: "What do you call alternative medicine that works? Medicine." There are lots of 'natural' and herbal remedies that absolutely work. Boiling willow bark and drinking the tea from it will cure a headache because willow bark contains acetylsalicylic acid, the main active ingredient in asprin...although personally, I'd just rather take an asprin. Basically, 'traditional' medicine looks at all these herbs and plants, works out scientifically what works and what doesn't, refines what works and discards what doesn't. So, chinese medicine can work, but it's not regulated. To expand on my example above, there are a lot of reasons why some people shouldn't take asprin. Your Doctor will know this and will tell you whether it's safe or not based on your medical history. Taking any medication given to you by some guy in a shop who takes your pulse, who doesn't understand what's actually in the stuff he's giving you probably isn't a good idea. Even the idea of 'all natural herbs' being universally good is false. Hemlock and Nightshade are also 'all natural'. Probably not for anything big, but some herbs are pretty potent and contain chemicals used in medicine. A good example of this is Ephedrine, which you can get from taking ma-huang. Ephedrine works the way it is claimed to work...so there's one thing that's legit. The other side of that is ephedrine is easy to make and cheap as hell, and despite what a lot of herbalists say, there's no reason to take the plant instead of the cheap manufactured version.
If the audience is busy laughing, a good comedian will repeat the sentence they were busy laughing at so the audience has a chance to refocus and not miss the end of that sentence or the beginning of the enxy. I've seen some bad comedians that just can't read their audience and they keep going through their routine firing off jokes and when everyone laughs, the next joke falls flat because half the people in the audience didn't even get a chance to hear the preamble. Additionally, repetition can be a rhetorical tool to drive a particular point or create interest or simply to entertain. Or they could be used to repeating themselves for any of the reasons already mentioned even if the specific instance of them repeating themselves actually doesn't fit the criteria but they are just used to doing it anyway.
Good question. When a nerve encounters a stimulus (such as pressure) proteins on the nerve cell's membrane called transport channels open, basically letting in *some* positively charged sodium ions. Once it reaches -55 millivolts, the membrane begins to depolarise at a much faster rate. Now, things called voltage gated sodium channels, and voltage gated potassium channels open, letting yet more positively charged sodium ions in, while letting some negatively charged potassium ions out. Once that portion of the nerve reaches 30 millivolts, the voltage gated transporters close, and begin to re polarise. In the time between when that section of the cell reaches -55 mv, and when it's restored to -70 mv(which is it's default voltage), its in whats known as a refractory period, which is where that section can't generate another impulse, as the voltage gated transporters wont re-open for a short while. This keeps the impulse moving in one direction. So yes, I think that an electrical shock would result in the electricity traveling in the same direction. Edit: made it slightly more specific. Edit 2: u/DoneUpLikeAKipper made me give this some more thought, and now that I think about it some more I realise that it would only stimulate an impulse if it raised the voltage inside the nerve to -55, which would activate the voltage gated transporters. If it where much higher then the refractory period that the channels enter would be irrelevant because they only prevent the impulse flowing backwards by stopping the ions from traveling, so the current would just flow in whatever direction. I might have messed something up though.
Think of white light being made up of all the colors of the rainbow equally. Since light from our Sun is essentially white, and our moon is dark grey (ie: no color), it reflects light back to us without any colors of light "lost". So it looks white. (To prove this to yourself, try shining a white-light flashlight on a black piece of construction paper in a dark room... the paper will look white). However, the light must pass through our atmosphere before it reaches our eyes. As the white light passes through our atmosphere, some of it is scattered in different directions, but not equally across all the colors of the rainbow (spectrum). In fact, colors that are on the "blue" side of the rainbow get scattered much more easily than the "red" side. So by the time the light has made it to your eye, some of the blue light has been scattered away. Now the light has more "red" light than "blue" light left over, so it appears more reddish. You may be asking yourself "where did the blue light go?" -- well it got scattered in all directions and makes the sky look blue. Ok, now to your question. The more air that white light passes through, the more blue light is scattered away, so it looks redder and redder. When you look at the Sun or Moon directly above your head, you are essentially looking through 1 "atmosphere" of air. However, since we live on a sphere, the closer they are to the horizon, the more "atmospheres" we are looking through. For example, when the Sun or Moon is just above our horizon, it is passing though nearly 30 "atmospheres" of air. That is a lot of blue light scattered away, which makes them both look much more red. This effect is increased by other particulate matter in the air. So areas of heavy smog like cities or after volcanic eruptions, the Sun and Moon can look "redder" than usual. If it's lower in the sky, the incoming light will be diffused just like sunlight is. The more atmosphere the light passes through, the redder and yellower it will appear.
The shape of snowflakes is influenced by the temperature and humidity of the atmosphere. Snowflakes form in the atmosphere when cold water droplets freeze onto dust particles. Depending on the temperature and humidity of the air where the snowflakes form, the resulting ice crystals will grow into a myriad of different shapes. Wilson Bentley (1865 – 1931) from Jericho, Vermont was the first person to capture photographs of snowflakes through the use of a microscope attached to a camera. His collection of 5,000 snowflake images introduced many people to the astounding diversity of snow crystals. [Wilson Bentley photographing a snowflake]( URL_4 ) In 1951, scientists from an organization now called the International Association of Cyrospheric Sciences (IACS) devised a classification system that characterized snowflakes into ten basic shapes. These shapes include the stellar crystals that many people are familiar with and odd snowflake forms such as capped columns. The IACS classification system is still in use today although there are other more complex classification systems as well. [1951 classification of snow crystals]( URL_1 ) Kenneth Libbrecht, Professor of Physics at the California Institute of Technology, has made extensive observations of how water molecules get incorporated into snow crystals. In his research, he has observed that the most intricate snowflake patterns are formed when there is moisture in the air. Snowflakes produced in drier conditions tend to have simpler shapes. [Effects of temperature and humidity on snowflake formation]( URL_2 ) Temperature also has a large effect on the formation of snowflakes according to Libbrecht’s research. Snowflakes formed in temperatures below – 22 degrees Celsius (- 7.6 degrees Fahrenheit) consist primarily of simple crystal plates and columns whereas snowflakes with extensive branching patterns are formed in warmer temperatures. [Up close photo of snowflake by Paula Lancaster Lupi]( URL_0 ) TL-DR: Temperature and humidity influence snowflake formation. The most intricate snowflake patterns are typically formed during warm and wet conditions. [Source]( URL_3 ) Edit: Added pictures.
Generally speaking, in an academic setting a theory is a proposed explanation for a set of data points that provides insight into the underlying workings or at least underlying formula that produced that data. Hence the theory of plate tectonics explains various geological features by proposing plates floating on magma. Or the theory of evolution explains biodiversity via various mechanisms of selection. Economic theories have the same goal, and so use the same terminology. They're using the scientific definition of the word (gravity is a theory). Theory is being used to mean everything that is understood about a topic. Everything within it should be repeatable, and peer reviewed. If someone can make repeatable observations that don't follow the theory, as in science, it can be incorporated into the theory after they understand why this is happening. Because they (rightly or wrongly) use scientific terminologies for their ideas. Within science, a theory is initially a hypothesis (basically, an idea) that undergoes testing and is useful for making predictions about the way our universe works. For example, Einstein developed his hypothesis concerning Relativity, and made predictions with that hypothesis that differed very significantly from Newtonian mechanics. Those predictions were proven to be correct, at which point General Relativity graduated to become a theory, and since has been used to predict the existence of other really weird phenomena that we now know exists. In many fields (particularly business, economics, psychology, sociology and social studies, politics, etc.) within the liberal arts that involve extensive human interaction, they utilize the same general ideas on terminology, but the standard of proof concerning the predictions are a hell of a lot lower, and as a result those fields are referred to as soft sciences because their theories aren't nearly as bulletproof because of the lower standards they are essentially forced to adhere to. On another note, business is generally harder and more reputable mathematically and scientifically than the other soft sciences, although to us in STEM fields it's still not quite strong enough to qualify as "true" science.
Sneezing is a reaction to clear out your nasal passage when there is an irritation in the nose. Sometimes that irritation is not gone by the first sneeze, so your brain will continue to tell your body to sneeze.
The growling is called borborygmi and it's caused by fluids and gasses moving through the intestine, not the stomach. The stomach sits left orientated, partially in the ribcage, wedged just below the diaphragm and part of the liver. The stomach itself is pretty thick and relatively deep in comparison to the coils of intestine found in the soft, superficial portion of your gut. You shouldn't be hearing much of anything from there when it is empty. Usually borborygmi is more specifically sounds in the large intestine. If you put your ear to someone's stomach area you're more likely to hear the exact stomach noises. So why noises when your stomach feels empty? Food sits in your stomach for about 2 hours on average, getting churned around and broken down into a more fluid state called chyme. Then it passes to your small intestine, emptying the stomach. This is where things have the potential to become noisy! Everything moves down the line at this point- chyme from stomach to small intestine, undigested remains from small intestine to large. As well, both stages of intestine spend several hours digesting- peristalsis (more churning) of the food mass in the small intestine where additional digestive enzymes are mixed in and the majority of nutrient absorbtion takes place, then mostly reabsorbtion of water (not churning) in the large intestine as the leftovers are slowly made into poop that go into the rectum for storage and expulsion. Once all the food moves down, stomach is ready for a new job and feels left out from all the action the intestine gets to have! Also realize your stomach contracts a lot for its digestive process and you don't feel it so much then, but you might feel it as it expells food to the small intestine. The body isn't particularly good at identifying where the stomach is. Most of your guts don't cause pain directly at their site, the body doesn't quite know where they are, this is why we feel heart attacks down the left arm with some chest tightness and not stabbing heart pains. You always have gas moving through your body. This makes sound. When there is food there, it muffles the sound. When it's empty, you hear it louder. Try putting your ear to someone's stomach (with permission.) You can still hear it growling even if they ate. I was just wondering this yesterday. I always have immense pain and nausea when I'm hungry in the morning and I was wondering too. I want to know why you get hungry and then if you wait and don't eat later on you feel full.
Doctor here, prepare for disappointment (that's how I start all clinic visits, btw). The disappointing thing is that this isn't well understood. That said, there are still some interesting things to think about so let's begin. There are two very different broad categories that could explain what is happening: 1) Emotional synesthesia. Think of the nervous system like an electrical system. Neurons are like wires that carry signals to different parts of the brain for processing. Some of these wires are known to be well-insulated and carry signals well. For example, the neurons that report light touch in the fingertips are very accurate. Other neurons are poorly insulated and the signals cross. That is why it is hard to localize pain in your gut. A pain signal from your colon can get mixed up with pain from your small intestine or even gallbladder. The physical feeling of a 'sinking heart' associated with sadness could be caused by these crossed wires. There are extreme examples of these "crossed wires" in synesthesia, where people see sound and hear color. However this type of thing occurs on a more subtle level in other people and this MAY be an example of emotional synesthesia where we physically feel emotion. 2) Actual sensation. The emotion of sadness may actually cause physical changes that we can feel. It is known that sadness can cause weakening of the heart, causing the bottom of the heart (confusingly called the 'apex') to balloon out and weaken. This is called Takasubo cardiomyopathy. Perhaps sadness could cause subtle changes in the chest area that we can actually sense, leading to this sensation of a sinking heart. As you can see, these two potential explanations describe very different mechanisms, one involving physical change and one purely neuronal. That is the level to which we don't understand this process. We don't even know the broad mechanism. I read some other comments here and I am concerned because they present speculation as fact. For example, [this comment]( URL_0 ) throws around a lot of unnecessary jargon that sounds like an explanation but they never identify how little is actually known about this subject. The mark of a knowledgeable comment is that it clearly defines the boundary between what is known and unknown. BONUS TOPIC: Here is something fun to think about. If the sensation is truly due to crossed wires, is that a defect in our bodies or is this a feature that was selected for? There could be a benefit of having a physical sensation of sadness to accompany the emotional sensation. By using dual negative stimuli, individuals are more likely to avoid situations that cause sadness. Perhaps this topic isn't disappointing as it shows how much good science there is left to be done. The feeling in your chest has been studied in the context of heartbreak and getting dumped before, and it's likely a similar set of processes involved. The part of the brain that reacts in that case (heartache) is actually the same part of the brain responsible for physical pain, so it's interpreted as actual pain. Stress hormones also have a tightening effect on your muscles that contribute to the hollow chest feeling. A friend of mine is going through some tough times of her own, and recently posted something about it that I thought was really beautiful. "Grief, I've learned, is really just love. It's all the love you want to give, but cannot. All of that unspent love gathers in the corners of your eyes, the lump in your throat, and the hollow in your chest. Grief is just love with no place to go." Vagus nerve (Cranial Nerve X) - it's connected by the brain stem into the sections of the brain that handle social stuff, has to be to manage both high alert and caring simultaneously, like in the case of male prairie voles protecting their young (that species being the standard animal model for family/social relations) - you have to be able to change heart settings quickly to do that job. That nerve is surprisingly involved in mammalian social behavior and the limbic circuits. The reason you get get that feeling you heart is the same reason you get pain on other things connected to the same nerve when you get a toothache. Look up Dr. Porge's polyvagal theory some time: URL_0 OP, yesterday I buried one of my absolute best friends from college. She died in the ER waiting room of a blood clot in the brain. Went unconscious at the doctor and then was just gone. I am so, so sorry OP. I've buried a lot of people in my 23 years, but Katy has been the most difficult. We just have to remember, /u/Trunks572, that while our friends can no longer be active in *our* lives, their lives will always continue on in our memory. We hold a bit of them in us, they just can no longer actively contribute. Humans are balls of clay, my dear man or woman; we're passed into the hands of whomever we meet. Most of the times they leave just a fingerprint; sometimes, a bit of an impression. But every once in awhile, we meet someone who completely changes a bit of us, or all of us, and we'll always have that. I'll always have Katy, and you'll always have your friend. Weirdly enough stress hormones can actually cause pretty severe chest pain, cause heart muscles to enlarge and very closely mimic the symptoms of a heart attack. Takotsubo cardiomyopathy (AKA broken heart syndrome) is pretty interesting: URL_0 Not sure if this is related to the pain of "regular" heart ache or not, but it does sorta show how emotional responses can physically effect your body. "To your brain, getting hit in the chest with a sledgehammer and losing someone you love are the same kinds of pain. It doesn't care where the pain comes from; it just knows when you hurt." That's about the simplest way I could explain it. Broken heart syndrome, also called stress-induced cardiomyopathy or takotsubo cardiomyopathy, can strike even if you’re healthy. (Tako tsubo, by the way, are octopus traps that resemble the pot-like shape of the stricken heart.) *Everything I've learned about illness, I've learned from watching Scrubs*
There is a whole list of ways. Shrapnel- basically really sharp bits of things flying through your body and tearing you apart. Heat- explosions generate a lot of heat. If you are close to the explosion and survive everything else the heat will most likely kill you. Shockwave- this is the big one. When there is an explosion it generates a massive shockwave in the air. Usually when you hear of people missing limbs it's because of this shockwave. Imagine a giant the air as a fluid a shockwave would be like a tsunami. Shrapnel. Fragmentation. Sharp bits of things that blew up penetrating you mostly. That and the shock wave can collapse your lungs.
First, I will make the assumption that you are somehow not dead due to the sheer amount of radiation passing through you. Maybe you're a ghost, idk. To understand this, we need to know what radiation is first. In the nucleus of an atom, we have neutrons and protons, held together by the Strong Nuclear Force. The number of protons tells us what element it is, and the number of neutrons determines the isotope of the element. When we say a "radioactive isotope," we are really referring to an atom that has so many neutrons and protons in its nucleus that it is unstable. It's like a water drop; the bigger it gets, the more likely it is to fall or split in two. So what is radiation? Radiation consists of single neutrons flying through space without being part of an atom. Unstable isotopes will eventually "decay" wherein they lose some of their neutrons to reduce their size and become more stable. These neutrons careen off into space and become radiation. If a flying neutron hits another unstable atom, or even a stable one, it can split it and disrupt its nucleus. As for seeing the neutrons, that's a little more tricky. The reason we can "see" atoms is actually due not only to their high density, but the electrons in them. When a photon of light strikes an atom, it gives the electrons orbiting the atoms energy, and they move further from the nucleus. Eventually, the electrons move closer to the nucleus again, and lose that energy by emitting it as a photon of light. That is how light is "reflected" and we are able to see things. So no, we wouldn't be able to see these particles of radiation, no matter how dense. If a photon of light were to hit the flying neutron of radiation, it would give the neutron more energy in the form of kinetic energy and speed of motion. However, since the neutron isn't orbiting a nucleus and has no motive to fall down to a lower energy state, it will keep that energy and the energy won't go back to a form of light. It may be transferred to another particle, and give that particle kinetic energy, but not as photons. There is such thing as a material constructed completely of neutrons. It's called neutronium, and it's what neutron stars are made of. Basically, when a star goes supernova, the heat can get intense enough to dissolve the strong nuclear force holding the nuclei of the atoms together. Neutrons will conglomerate (because they don't repel each other like electrons and protons), and eventually their intense gravity is enough to hold them together and form a neutron star. Neutronium is so incredibly dense that if any were to be created on Earth, it would sink to the core of the planet, through anything solid. One teaspoon weighs about as much as an aircraft carrier. Scientists have actually never seen a neutron star, and we're not sure whether this is because they don't give off enough light for our telescopes to see, or because they don't interact with photons of light at all. Most likely the latter. TL;DR We can't see radiation because it is comprised of neutrons, which won't reflect photons of light, unlike the electrons orbiting atoms that allow us to see normal matter. @ArmaDolphins had a long answer, but I'd like to mention the disturbing case of the film footage from Pripyat, shot after the Chernobyl disaster. URL_0 It's not exactly what you are asking about, but it is film shot where radiation levels were so high that the particles left visible evidence on the film frames. Quite creepy.
So, my source is an informational presentation from a law enforcement officer. If someone wants to add a different perspective, by all means... Dealers want to be known for having the strongest stuff around. Yes, people OD. They consider it advertising. Tldr it makes the drugs stronger and more addictive. It's easier to get hooked so they sell more Usually it's too either A) be more addictive, and/or B) be known to have the strongest and best shit around. So if someone overdoses, other people might assume its strong and possibly the best around. This will interest more people to buy from that dealer I just learned this. It's because when people OD the people buying drugs think that dudes stuff must be awesome and it actually gets them more customers vs others. Plus the stuff they put in is so much cheaper than the actual product that they make a much higher profit margin.
It usually takes a number of people getting fairly ill and reporting to emergency rooms or urgent care centers in a relatively short amount of time. There are a number of metrics used, but usually several people report illness within a short distance of each other. Data starts to build and county/state health departments get contacted and they start to investigate. If links can be drawn beyond a small community (say, a local restaurant serving improperly prepared food) to something bigger (like a grocery store chain selling a tainted product in multiple states), the CDC may get involved. [Here's an example of a common reporting form]( URL_0 ) that is used when investigating those claims. From there, investigators can track down specific products, get in touch with the companies that produced them, and then hopefully track it down to specific lot numbers and figure out when and where the contamination occurred. Edit:Fixed mobile typos. Health officials interview each person who got the disease, asking where they ate and what they ate. If possible they also look at the food they had at their homes. They look for anything in common between several of the people, and then they inspect that source as the possible cause.
Human babies take a long time to develop because they are born less mature than other animals. Why is this? Humans have one major advantages over other animals: Advanced tool use. This requires a big brain and free hands to manipulate things. Walking upright gives us the hands free, and narrower hips help to walk upright. A big brain allows the smarts for understanding tools and complex visual processing. But the brain needs to be protected inside a skull, and the skull needs to pass through the pelvis at birth. Now you have opposing demands: Narrow pelvis and big skulls! Everything is pushed to its limit in the competition of needs. The birth is painful and relatively dangerous, the skull isn't fully fused at birth so it can be squished, and humans are born relatively prematurely. It is OK though because humans can care for their offspring rather than requiring them to be able to run within hours like deer. OK I can't cite all my sources b/c I only rented my anthropology textbook, not bought it, but hopefully this'll give you a signal boost. Humans are notable for developing *everything* more slowly than other animal babies. Think about it. A common bottlenose dolphin lives like 40 years. They're swimming the minute they leave the vag. Anthropologists aren't sure why our slow pace is necessarily evolutionarily advantageous, but it's pretty darned obvious that we learn *a lot more* than dolphins ever do, and we learn it in our childhoods. So our brain is structured to learn A LOT. While we're learning how to walk, we're also learning intensely detailed facial recognition and a bunch of other uniquely human skills, and all of it needs to be laid down in a brain that's built to handle a lot of information and store it forever. So the slow pace is probably a side-effect, not a feature. If you're looking for an explanation of how brain matter works, hopefully someone else answers. I look forward to reading the other answers too! :) Because human babies are born too early - we have larger skull (evolutionary trait for intelligence) and relatively narrow hips (trait for bi-pedal walking) - to fit former thru later (weight is also a factor), birth occurs earlier in fetus development process, with rest of development continuing outside of mother's body. "full" pregnancy should last around 18-21 months. If you compare 10 month old human toddler to newborn giraffe, the difference is no longer that big. In addition to what others have said (big head, narrow hips etc) I would like to add that bipedal walking is much harder than quadrupedal walking. A quadruped is statically stable, a biped dynamically stable. Which is why we learn to crawl before we walk.
the deadline is Jan 31st. there's no reason to send them out early. so if it's a mature payroll department, and they know it takes them 2 weeks to do it, there's no reason to start them Jan 1st because they got other things to do. So I prepare payroll reports and have to do them quarterly. There is also Year end reports that go to the IRS along with W2s. Our average client has 1-3 employees and using QuickBooks it takes approx 15 - 20 to do those reports. They then get reviewed by my boss for accuracy. He sends it back so we can file them via QuickBooks and then print it. So depending on what you consider is medium size (?) that's why it may take them longer. Also if they're double checking them it's easier to check them all at once and then mail them.
I've programmed in C/C++ for almost twenty years and I had trouble following that as well. To be fair to the guy, it is often hard to explain things which have become second nature. When in doubt, use parentheses! The extra characters don't make the code any slower but it'll be much easier to read. Remember that someone may have to debug into this code later (and it could be you). That said, one useful trick with AND's and OR's is that they will return early if the rest of the expression is not necessary. if (first_function() || second_function())) ... the second_function() is skipped if the first_function() returns true. You only need one of them to be true. Conversely, if (first_function() & & second_function())) ... the second_function() is skipped if the first_function() returns false. You only need one of them to be false. This can help. Otherwise, just use lots of parentheses!! C does not technically have booleans. However it use an int to represent booleans where 0 is false and any other value is true. # ! a int not(int a) { if (a == 0) return 1; else return 0; } The AND operator checks if both expressions are true. # a & & b int and(int a, int b){ if (a != 0) if (b != 0) return 1; return 0; } The OR operator checks if either of the expressions are true. # a || b int or(int a, int b){ if (a != 0) return 1; if (b != 0) return 1; return 0; } There are some nuances to this. As noted in the text the not operator is valuated first, then the and and lastly or. You can control this using parenthesis. So !a || b & & c is the same as (!a) || (b & & c). In addition the expressions are not evaluated unless needed. So if you write (a & & b++) b will not be incremented unless a is true.
The green is the colour of the solder mask, which is a layer on top of the yellowish fiberglass base and the copper traces. Green is a nice contrasting colour with the traditional white of the silkscreen, which makes text easy to read. Solder mask without many or any pigments added will look a little greenish because of the fiberglass beneath it, it's cheapest to not add any pigments. Other colours are used only for aesthetics. This [stack exchange]( URL_0 ) question has a couple posts which try to dig into the question of "Why did green become the standard color?" **trav1s** dug into the original patent and found that they did list 3g of dye in the recipe, however they don't specify an particular dye as required. **Tut** found an article that suggests that the original combination of resin and hardener formed a unpleasant brown color, and adding yellow and blue to this formed an acceptable green color. Work at a defense company -- for production we typically use green but I've seen various colors on custom designed boards. Also for internal projects (not allowed for sale) we use red boards to prevent any mix-ups in testing and quality sign off. Green is just classic solder mask, any other colours are usually a premium and don't add anything. The colored part you see is the "soldermask" and no, it usually does not matter what color it is. Sometimes you might want it to be a certain color to easily distinguish it from other boards. A company I worked at made boards with controlled impedance and we decided that green would be 100 ohms, blue was 75 ohms, etc just to make it really easy. We also had some products that had two boards (a top and a bottom) so for a product like this the top board might be red and the bottom might be blue just to make it easier on the assembly line to tell a worker that red goes on top and blue goes on bottom. This made life easier for us.
This is actually a popular way for some athletes to improve their performance. Im not familiar with all the details, but from what I understand it gives more energy and slightly enhanced physical abilities for a short time as the body works to break down the extra blood. It wouldn't be enough to be noticed in that regard. Veins and arteries can stretch quite a bit and the volume of liquids flowing through them varies. Blood cells are only a portion of what flows through there. It would be the same as getting a saline IV.
In chaos theory, there's this concept known as bifurcation, which is when the behaviour of a system changes drastically as a parameter of the system crosses a certain threshold. The particular bifurcation that's relevant is this situation is the bifurcation of the logistic map. Let's break that down a bit. The logistic map is one of the simplest examples of a chaotic system. It's a very simple set of rules, as follows: 1. Pick a number x between 0 and 1 2. Multiply x by (1-x) and then multiply that by a parameter r, to get the number rx(1-x). 3. Repeat step 2 ad infinitum. You can represent this graphically by drawing the quadratic equation y = rx(1-x) on a graph, and then drawing the straight line y = x on top of it. The rules then effectively become: 1. Pick a point on the straight line 2. Move vertically until you hit the quadratic curve 3. Move horizontally until you hit the straight line again 4. Repeat steps 2 and 3 ad infinitum The behaviour of this system depends on the value of the parameter r. If r is less than 3, then the numbers you get will eventually approach a single fixed point between 0 and 1 (the fixed point might *be* 0 or 1 for certain values of r). If r is between about 3 and ~3.45, then the system will end up cycling between 2 values that are in the 0 to 1 range. If r is between ~3.45 and ~3.54, then the system ends up cycling between 4 values, still in the 0 to 1 range. As r increases up to ~3.57, then the period of the system, the number of values it cycles between, will repeatedly double, to 8, 16, and so on. This is what's known as the period doubling bifurcation. For r between ~3.57 and 4, then the system is chaotic. It doesn't settle into any cycle and just goes on forever, never approaching any value, though it'll stay in the 0 to 1 range. There are certain boundaries between ~3.57 and 4 where it becomes stable again, with a period of 3, or 6, or 12 and so on. If r is greater than 4, then the numbers you get will end up outside the 0 to 1 range, and will just start heading off towards infinity. Whenever we cross one of those thresholds in the value of r, we call that a bifurcation. You can capture this behaviour by looking at what is called the bifurcation diagram, which for the logistic map, looks like [this]( URL_1 ). The horizontal axis shows the value of the parameter r, and the vertical axis shows the values that the map approaches. It might look confusing, but compare it to what I've written here. You can see that for r < 3, there's only 1 value that it approaches, for r between 3 and ~3.45 there are two values, so it cycles between them, then it shifts to 4 values, then 8, then it gets all crazy and chaotic once r goes past about 3.57. You can also see stable regions, like I mentioned, for instance just after r = 3.8. Now, what does all this have to do with the Mandelbrot set, which I haven't even mentioned so far? Well, look at [this]( URL_0 ). The Mandelbrot set lines up perfectly with the bifurcation diagram for the logistic map. This is the connection. The boundary of the Mandelbrot set is exactly the set of points where the logistic map bifurcates. Neat, huh?
If it from caffeine withdraw. There is a lot of caffeine in pop and when you suddenly remove it from your diet (or reduce it) your body starts having withdraw symptoms. The good news is that these symptoms only last a few days, and that is why they go away.
Most of the filming for a movie can be done in a couple of months, the rest of the time is editing, adding CG effects, marketing and waiting for the right time to release the movie. A lot of work is also done beforehand to write and edit the script, scouting locations for filming and getting permits, hiring staff and making sure that your actors are available. A TV show uses a lot of the same locations, costumes and actors every show. The crew usually works exclusively on that show for the whole season. The scripts have been written in advance, or several writers are working on scripts for several episodes at a time. Scenes that take place in the same location over several episodes can all be filmed at the same time and then edited together as needed. Most of the hard work in filming something is getting all of the necessary parts together. Once a TV show has all the crew, actors, makeup artists etc. in one spot they can film as much material as they need somewhat easily. it's important to note that a TV show is *not* making a 45-minute episode per week - they're usually 4-6 weeks ahead of whichever episode is airing. as in, if episode 8 just aired, chances are the production is currently editing episode 12, 13, or 14 (or any combination), and they may be actively shooting episode 15 and up. a full season (20ish episodes) of a typical network drama will take 6-10 months to complete. movies require all footage to be shot in one long stretch (note: there may be re-shoots, but these are not common). this allows films to be made cheaper (it's cheaper to rent equipment in continuous stretches vs. intervals) and allows for easier personnel scheduling (which also reduces cost). TV episodes are (for the most part) shot on a rolling schedule. episode 1 is shot first, then episode 2, etc. note that there are exceptions - i believe Game of Thrones shoots each season as if it were a movie (i.e. all in one big chunk). TV shows shoot this way because you can enter post-production (editing, VFX, etc.) for episode 1 while episode 4 is shooting; the overlap reduces costs and enables easier scheduling. post-production time and cost varies wildly from show-to-show and movie-to-movie. if a show requires a lot of VFX work it typically has a much longer post-production schedule.
The color-sensing cone cells in your eyes need time to "recharge". When light hits those cells, special molecules absorb the light and are forced to change shape, which activates the nerves in your retina. When you stare at a bright light, your cone cells are all firing, all of those molecules are getting bent, and when you close your eyes they're stuck bent for just a short while and continue activating your nerves. The longer you stare at bright light, the more cones are activated and don't have time to fix themselves. When we see it's because chemicals in the retina of our eyes are broken down by light which triggers a signal to be sent to the brain that the area where the light was detected is light. When something is bright it can break down all of this chemical in an area leaving a dark spot until it can be replenished
When the water hits your taste buds, they are stimulated a little. The problem is they have been overloaded with sugar and acid, thus they are temporarily unable to *report* sugar and acid at that moment. Therefore they report the only thing left: alkaline (bitter) taste. Add that to the fact that most water has dissolved minerals in it that make it ever-so-slightly alkaline.
Almonds are seeds, almond seeds are dicots, meaning they have 2 cotyledons. When you split the seed in half you are exposing each cotyledon Therefore both sides of the almond are not completely joined Botanist here: They're cotyledons, aka "seed leaves". As the seed germinates the developing plant uses them for energy and nutrients until they can produce photosynthetic leaves. [Relevant picture]( URL_0 ) If you split open the almond you see a tiny little nubbin at the bottom of the split. This embryo is the part that is going to grow into the plant. The main almond part is a food store for the plant. The split is there to allow the plant to grow and break out of the nut.
Description on amazon for the first brand of 'splash-less' bleach I searched for says 'thicker formula' which would make it flow slower out of the bottle, and less likely to splash.
Starch is used as poster glue. The gluten in wheat additionally makes the strands of starch molecules link together to make a tough solid.
This is called "digital rights management", or DRM. DRM comes in a variety of forms. When software came with printed manuals, sometimes there'd be information on the manual the program would force you to enter. Later, when software came on CD's, often extra DRM data on the CD was written in non-standard locations that can be read by most CD drives through low-level operating system calls, but cannot be written by most home CD burners. For game consoles, games use proprietary cartridges or discs that are different from normal forms of those media. The console manufacturer basically tightly controls the production of physical copies of games. So for the most part, you can't e.g. simply use a normal DVD burner to make copies of Wii games. These days, where most software is bought and sold on the internet, DRM has to take a different approach because there's no physical stuff you can put extra required information on. It often involves the software contacting a server being run by the publisher (or the contractor providing the DRM technology), and ensuring the usage of the software is authorized. For example it may check that the serial number is legitimate, or it may require the user to login to an account. It will also generally deny access to serial numbers or user accounts that are seen in multiple locations. > why can't someone just upload new copies without it? This is called "cracking", "warez" or "software piracy." It takes some technical sophistication to figure out how to crack software, and it's illegal in the US. That doesn't stop people from doing it though. A lot of times the people who crack software also insert malware -- cracked versions of the Windows operating system are especially notorious for being crawling with malware. Many users regard DRM as evil. Some reasons for this: - If the company running the DRM server goes out of business or decides to shut down the server one day, software you've bought may stop working. - If the DRM requires an internet connection, you can't use it if you don't have an internet connection available. - It makes it difficult to create backup copies of software, in case the physical copy wears out or is accidentally destroyed (for example in a fire or flood). - If DRM locks the software to a particular machine, you have to purchase a new copy of the software if you buy a new machine or perform extensive hardware upgrades. - DRM fails of its objective of preventing piracy. Despite using the best available DRM technology, cracked versions of popular software tend to quickly appear after release. - DRM assumes users are criminals. This is very insulting.
New stadiums are good for business, so the owners want them. They try to convince taxpayers to fund the stadiums, because obviously that's better than paying for the stadiums themselves. So they try to convince taxpayers that existing stadiums are not usable. Newer, nicer stadiums mean more profit for the teams. So, clearly, they want newer facilities so they can make more money. Major sports leagues intentionally have fewer franchises than there are cities that can support them. This means that the team owners will always have leverage with the city when it comes to things like this, because there is always another city they can move to. Newer stadiums generate more profits for several reasons: 1. Corporate Boxes. These are bought for a whole season atexorbitant prices. These are relatively new phenomenon and 20-30 year old stadiums don't have them. 2. Sells more regular tickets because with the advent of HD TVs the quality of watching games at home has gone through the roof and no one want to go to a old stadium as opposed to a new one with huge jumbotrons and wifi. 3. New stadiums get Super Bowls and these generate huge amounts of money for the team (and city I might add). San Diego's stadiums was at least 20 years out of date. I went there last season. The John Oliver segment tells it well URL_0 In short, it's nothing to do with the sport and all to do with big business trying to palm costs off onto local states. It's a pretty shitty move TBH. Because the owner really wants a new stadium. Older stadiums typically don't have large amounts of luxury suites that they can charge insane amounts of money for. The 49ers for example, were able to collect 400 million from Personal Seat Licenses just for their luxury suites. Keep in mind those aren't tickets to the games, and it doesn't count the 60,000 plus regular seats in the stadium. Those Seat Licenses just allow you the right to purchase tickets going forward. The luxury suites are not subject to revenue sharing. So teams want new facilities with more luxury suites. I wish all teams were run like the Packers. Publicly owned and they have been in the same stadium for 60 years. Because if they claim that, they can convince gullible politicians to buy something they should have to pay for themselves. For a couple reasons. The first is the most practical. Sometimes stadiums either fail entirely (most recent example is the Vikings stadium from a few years ago that collapsed in snow), or the stadiums are so old that it needs upgrades that cost so much is makes it pointless to keep the existing stadium. For example, would it be smarter to buy a $4000 car and spend $16000 in upgrades/parts, or buy a new $20000 car that doesn't need any work? The more common reason, however, is money. Every new stadium gets to charge more for tickets because it's a newer stadium. Also, in the NFL, every new stadium typically gets to host a Super Bowl within a few years of opening. So not only do the owners get to earn ticket revenue from regular season games, they get to cash in on the championship game the NFL hosts each year. This also benefits hotels and other businesses in the immediate area as well. Because fans will stay home to watch the game rather than spend their hard earned money going to a dump of a stadium. Another reason I don't think has been posted here is that people are flocking from NFL stadiums for living room couches. In a lot of cases, the experience at home is just better than what the stadium can offer, especially now with Red Zone, Sunday Ticket and the high cost associated with attending games now. NFL teams are building new stadiums to try to bring the home experience to the stadium. They have better concession offerings, fantasy football areas so people can follow their teams, large screens to display tons of information and replays etc, all designed to make the fan experience more like it is at home. I believe it was the Coliseum where the Raiders play that they had cups taped to the ceiling to catch leaks in the press box. Sure the foundation is stable and the walls will stay up and the field is playable, but it is showing age. It was first opened in 1966, which means it's been open for just over 50 years. Now if it was a simple leak in the press box they might be able to fix that and move on. But the issues are more than than, and they start adding up. The stadium was recently renovated in 1996, for $200 million. Now you're getting into the situation /u/supermclovin described > For example, would it be smarter to buy a $4000 car and spend $16000 in upgrades/parts, or buy a new $20000 car that doesn't need any work? Sure the numbers don't work out so cleanly in reality, but it explains the situation the Raiders are in.
Here's an answer I gave in an earlier thread that I think helps make it more intuitive. As you'll see, the answer here doesn't depend on where the observer is standing, it depends instead on how far the blades are moving in a given rotation. Others have explained it pretty well, but I wanted to take a shot at this in a visual form. Now, I can't do a clockface, but I can do a line. So imagine we have a line with one part jutting out, so it looks like this: ....I.. imagine also that it wraps around. So if the "I" moves **ONE spot per move**, it would go like this: .....I. ......I I...... .I..... ..I.... ...I... and so on. As you can see, it looks like the I is moving forward on this seven point line. But now imagine that instead of moving one spot at a time, it was **moving SIX spots** at a time. Then it would look like this I...... ......I .....I. ....I.. ...I... ..I.... As you can see, even though the "I" is still moving forward, because of how far it's moving per "frame" it starts to look like it's moving backwards, instead of forwards. And, if it moved 7 spots per move, it would look like this, appearing completely still even though it's moving with every cycle: I...... I...... I...... I...... I...... I...... And, alternatively, if it started off moving six spots, and the sped up to seven after two iterations, you'd get this: I...... ......I ......I ......I ......I ......I ......I and so would look to all observers like it was in that seventh spot and still. The effect that you are describing is known as the wagon wheel effect. It occurs most often when you're watching a movie or tv show or commercial where once a car hits he right speed, the wheels seem to stop moving or go backwards even. This is caused by the fact that cameras work by taking pictures at a frame rate. This means that a video is really just a bunch of pictures being shown at a fast rate, usually 24 FPS. So this means that once a car's wheels starts rotating at 24 RPS, the spokes will appear to have been at the same place although technically, the camera only took photos at that specific point and just wasn't fast enough to take pictures of it in the other angles. And once a car goes faster than 24 RPS, the spokes will be a few degrees previous to hat they were before. As far as real life, there have been two explanations. One says that our brain and eyes work similarity to a camera in that we take multiple scenes and construct them into vision at high rate. The other says that our brain is capable of turning ambiguous situations and creating interpretations that are completely false ie; Necker Cube, Hollow Face Illusion, etc. Hope this helped
"Obamacare" is actually called the "Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act", but was renamed "Obamacare" by Republicans in an attempt to make Republicans/Conservatives/Alt-Righters dislike the act before they knew what it was because is was being associated with Obama (whom they already hated for many reasons - another story completely). That being said, the Affordable Care Act did a few things, including: * **Forces people to get a health care policy** (*Conservatives/Republicans don't like this because they perceive that it infringes on their freedoms; Democrats/Liberals like this because it helps people get help for their health*). * **Does not allow insurance companies to deny coverage to someone with a [pre-existing condition]( URL_0 )** (*Democrats/Liberals like this because it helps people get help for their health; Republicans/Conservatives don't like this because it takes money out of their pockets and forces businesses to behave in a certain way*). * **Expanded Medicaid eligibility to include individuals and families with incomes up to 133% of the federal poverty level** (*Democrats/Liberals like this because it helps people get help for their health; Republicans/Conservatives don't like this because it takes money out of their pockets*). * **Subsidized insurance premiums** (give people money to help them pay their premiums; *Democrats/Liberals like this because it helps people get help for their health; Republicans/Conservatives don't like this because it takes money out of their pockets*). It did a lot more, and you can read about it [here]( URL_1 ). TL;DR - it's allowed a lot of poor people access to healthcare that they did not previously have access to. And then [those same people voted for someone who would dismantle it]( URL_2 ) without thinking about the implications of their actions.... but that's another story. **Generally Liberals like it because it means poor people can have access to healthcare, and Conservatives hate it because it forces behavior ("curtails freedom") and potentially takes money out of their pockets to help other people.** EDIT: Formatting Obamacare does a whole bunch of stuff, more than I care to lay out in detail, but critically it does one thing: it mandates people get private insurance. Initially Obamacare was supposed to be universal healthcare, and Obama said he would not waver on the public option, but he ended up scrapping it entirely in an effort to get the bill passed by congress. This is mostly why democrats are angry about it, if they're angry about it. Republicans are mostly angry about it because it's the government forcing them to get a healthcare policy, which they don't feel they should have to. The other reason many people dislike it is because it's basically a huge handout to insurance companies, in a way. The idea was originally, let's make everyone get insurance, and have a public option so that there's a baseline insurance companies have to compete with. Since that got scrapped, however, insurance companies are free to collude with one another and price policies at whatever the hell they want them to, since now people MUST buy their policy from somebody, but the companies don't need to compete with a public option. There have been cases of some peoples' policies rising in cost by up to 30%. EDIT: words r hard
We get initially attracted by looks, for sure, but they aren't enough on their own for most people. Neither is personality, of course. It is oversimplifying to say looks aren't important. But it is also oversimplifying to say we are more attracted by looks. It's called "lying" and people do it to be polite. Those who have inadequate looks stay single for years or otherwise are settling for others who also are very unattractive. That's how the honest truth really is.
A mouse will eat almost anything it can find and fit into its mouth, and although cheese isn't among its favorite foods it will eat it up if that's all there is. And that's probably how this myth of mice loving cheese got started. They were constantly being discovered in medieval cupboards eating the household cheese stash. But this would have been because it was the only food they could get to since the meat would be hanging and salted, and grain would be stored in jars. It was cheese or starvation. Then cartoons like Tom And Jerry picked it up and there was no turning back. Because of the long shelf-life of cheese. It was one of the few food products in the Middle Ages that could be stored for a really long time. Since mice will eat it if it's available to them, and since the cheeses tended to hang around longer than other foods, the depredations of the mice were more obvious. People just jumped to the conclusion that mice love cheese.
It actually takes quite a bit of brain power to have a concept of "self," and an even greater amount to recognize that this animal you see in front of you is actually not an animal but a visual representation of yourself projected on front of your eyes. This is not something that would have ever been helpful in nature, so it takes a brain that evolved enough processing power generally have this one specialized skill available accidently.
Alcohol has many effects on the mind and body. The most famous is obviously that it reduces *inhibition*. Inhibition is your self-control, the voice that tells you "don't do what you're thinking about doing, it's probably not a good idea." So some get drunk, and maybe they're the kind of person that often has to talk themselves out of starting fights or hitting people, and once the alcohol is in their system, that self-control vanishes and they just act on impulse and start picking fights or hitting people. The same reduced inhibition can cause all kinds of emotional changes. Usually when we go about our lives, little things might irritate or frustrate us, but we use reason and judgment to decide not to make a big deal out of it, not to get upset or lash out at others, or we reason that the irritating thing wasn't actually someone else's fault or isn't something worth getting upset over. When we're drunk, we lose our judgment and inhibition, so maybe when something frustrates us, we get mad immediately and don't think better of causing a scene. If you're looking for the actual *chemical* reason for all this, it's very technical and I don't really understand it but Wikipedia says: > Ethanol [alcohol] inhibits the ability of glutamate to open the cation channel associated with the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptors. Stimulated areas include the cortex, hippocampus and nucleus accumbens, which are responsible for thinking and pleasure seeking. Another one of alcohol's agreeable effects is body relaxation, possibly caused by neurons transmitting electrical signals in an alpha waves-pattern; such waves are observed (with the aid of EEGs) when the body is relaxed. Alcohol reduces your inhibition, some people get horny when their inhibitions go down, others get giggly, and some get violent.
first off, you have to understand there are several types of match fixing. Most types revolve around a binary result (win/loss, yes/no) because that means fewer variables. Most of the time, the people getting something out of it are gamblers (who bet on the pre-destined result) and participants (who are paid to help create that result). The huge majority of match fixing occurs in events that are fairly low profile; the reasons for this are fairly obvious. Fewer people paying attention, and a lower 'cost of entry' (it doesn't cost as much to convicne people to collude). I'll try to give a few examples. The easiest: win/lose results involving only two competitors. This is thought to have happened fairly recently in Tennis, and Snooker. In the early rounds of a tournement - especially 'tour' events - the money for winning an early round is really not much. So a betting syndicate might decide to offer one of the players some money to essentially "take a dive". To lose the game. If enough people bet on the other guy to win, the bettors can turn a profit even once the payment to the loser is taken into account. Related to that - score betting. This is something that is alleged to have happened in sports like tennis; you'll get better odds for a player losing 6-2, 6-2 than just losing in straight sets. This is a bit riskier for both the player and the gamblers, because it assumes that one player has that type of control over the match. It occurs to me that for this to really work, you'd have to have both players in your pocket. Prop bets: a few years ago, bookmakers (especially in England) started taking bets on some 'fun' in game events, like which team would get the first throw-in in a football/soccer game (things that don't affect the final score, but are easily verifiable). It wouldn't take much to convinced a player (probably the guy involved in kick-off) to 'attempt' a long pass to the wing only to 'overhit' it and see it sail out for a free kick Match fixing the result of individual soccer games is not easy. It's a team sport, so either you have to have everybody on one team involved, or the referees, or both. The **Calciopoli** scandal in Italy in 2006 revolved around certain teams making arrangements to have 'friendly' referees officiate their games. In the 60s in England there was a scandal that involved several players getting involved to rig specific matches. Cricket has also had its share as well (Hanse Cronje) and so does baseball (with the Black Sox of 1919 world series). In pretty much every case, the reason is for financial gain and that is usually from gambling. It's actually become a lot easier to notice fixing with the advent of betfair and other betting exchanges. Experience will tell you the weight of money likely to be placed on a given match, so if more than is expected is wagered, that counts as the "unusual betting pattern" that you see mentioned in the news. Bookmakers are obviously very keen not to get caught in things like this as well, which is why there are such strict rules for staff to follow. Source: used to be betting office manager in the UK. Keep in mind the athlete doesn't actually have to lose to fix the match. If the underdog has a certain point spread, a gambler can pay a player on the favorite to keep the game within the point spread ("Point shaving") so that bets on the underdog win even if the favorite actually wins the game outright.
Vitamin B6 [certainly does]( URL_0 ) (I take it daily). I also happen to be wearing a nicotine patch to quit smoking and also take B12. Wow. This combination has added a realism to my dreams like none other. As to why nicotine aids in this, I can only find anecdotal reports in dream-related forums (like Reddit's) that because it has been shown to increase focus in the brain, nicotine somehow pivots to where the brain activity happens to be most active at the moment (i.e., REM sleep) and enhances focus there.
The beep is a sonar ping. Sonar = SOund Navigation And Ranging Yes, in the movies submarines ping all the time. This is not how they work in reality. Submariners call their work "the silent service", as they spend all their time sneaking around stealthily. They use passive sonar, listening for the sounds that other things make, as their primary way of keeping track of other vessels. They have high percesion inertial navigation to keep track of where they are. However, in a movie watching some experts stand silently around with headsets trying to hear very feint sound would be **Super-Duper Boring**. The bings cue you that it's a submarine, as though the cramped quarters wouldn't do that. Former Submarine Sonar Technician here. The sound you hear is "active sonar" which means we make the sound, wait for the return and using geometry that gives us a range to the object. However this is rarely used as it lets the enemy know exactly where we are. If you watch the movie "The Hunt for Red October" this is the job Jonesy is doing. However, again, that is far fetched. Normally we have no less than 5 sonarmen listening at the same time to make sure nothing is missed. The most accurate submarine movie for submarine life IMO is "down periscope", but the most actually accurate one would be u-571.
Better wiring, but also better equipment between the wires. Faster routing, faster decision making. Comes down to both efficiency through iteration (engineers have been thinking about better ways to solve the same problem for twenty years), and technological improvements like smaller and faster chips, etc. Data compression has certainly gotten more efficient as well, both in the encoding algorithms for media and for the transport layer. (Think of implementing torrent-like technology not at the consumer software level, but at the hardware level, etc.) Another big thing is Content Delivery Networks. When YouTube started, they were streaming video to you from their huge central datacenter in California, even if you lived in Melbourne. Now, they just copy an upload to their CDN nodes around the world, and you're watching a stream that comes from Sydney, much closer to you physically.
They don't work. They are a form of fortune telling, and are easily manipulated by the dowser (scam artist) by tiny pressure and tilting of the hands.
Take two successive numbers of Fibonacci sequence, 13 and 21 for example. 21/13 will be close to golden ratio. Kepler proved that limit of ratio of two infinitely large successive Fibonacci numbers is golden ratio, or lim{n - > inf} F{n+1}/Fn = phi. EDIT: More general form, as wikipedia says, is lim{n - > inf} F{n+a}/Fn = phi^a, and it leads to phi^{n+1} = phi^n + phi^{n-1}. Well, let's look at what the golden ratio IS. It's the solution to the following equation: 1/phi + 1 = phi The fibonacci sequence can be written as: f(n) = f(n-1) + f(n-2). From this we can construct a function g(n) = f(n+1)/f (n) which becomes g(n) = [f(n) + f(n-1)] / f(n) = 1 + f(n-1)/f(n). This then turns into g(n) = 1 + 1/g(n-1). Why... that's very close to the definition of the Golden ratio! As it turns out, g(n) is a convergent sequence, which means the higher n gets, the closer to the golden ratio you get! And this isn't restricted to the Fibonacci sequence. Start with ANY two positive numbers... so long as it follows the rule f(n) = f(n-1)+f(n-2) it will converge on the golden ratio in the exact same way.
Postpartum depression seems to be brought on by the **changes in hormone levels** that occur after pregnancy. Any woman can get postpartum depression in the months after childbirth, miscarriage, or stillbirth. [(source)]( URL_0 )
It can only be so the mail carrier doesn't have to get out and walk up to each house if they have extended lawns/driveways. With mailboxes right at the street they can drive straight down the line, saving tons of time and hitting more addresses in a day. In general, it makes it easier for the mail deliverer to do their job if the mailbox is closer to the street. So the practice of having the house be farther away from the street meant that having the mailbox be a separate thing was a good compromise. Though MANY houses keep their postboxes attached to the house itself. It varies depending on your neighborhood. Some new housing developments like mine have on big box for every one (lots of little boxes with keys) so the mailman makes one stop Because the carriers deliver by car because that is more efficient. They only deliver on foot in dense cities and in these situations houses normally have a box on or near the door of the house.
Body temperature doesn't increase because you're nauseous or vomiting. It rises so it can kill the intruder, like bacteria. Vomiting happens so the body can get rid of the bacteria. I assume the main reason for vomiting is that the body tries to get rid of the material that has the intruder in it. Like spoiled food. It also happens even if you ingest safe substance because the body doesn't know it's safe.
The FTC has a clause on their small business [FAQ]( URL_0 ) which describes the requirements around disclosures. An interesting snippet reads: "Although **there is no hard-and-fast rule about the size of type in a print ad or the length of time a disclosure must appear on TV**, the FTC often has taken action when a disclaimer or disclosure is too small, flashes across the screen too quickly, is buried in other information, or is otherwise hard for consumers to understand" ___ This pretty much answers your question. It would be better to just have a code which has a font and duration requirements which links to the disclosure statement on a FTC controlled database.
This is my first ELI5 answer, so I hope I'm ELI5'ing enough... For simplicity's sake, let's assume the entire depth of the atmosphere is below freezing, so all precipitation will fall as snow and accumulate. The amount of precipitation that falls from a given storm is influenced by numerous factors. Moisture in the system from its source region, moisture drawn into the system from elsewhere, intensity and development of the system, time it takes the system to move through an area and more - all determine how much liquid will fall. Computer models are decent at modeling this - generally better in the cool season when the mechanisms producing precipitation tend to be more widespread and slower developing. Given that we have an expected liquid amount, there are then even MORE factors to determine the amount of snowfall. The snow-to-liquid ratio depends on several different things - temperatures throughout the atmosphere, degree of saturation at different levels of the atmosphere, etc. There is a zone of temperatures that produces large, fluffy snowflakes, and if it is particularly deep that can produce high ratio snowfalls. Snow to liquid ratios are expressed in a form such as 10:1 (ten to one), meaning 10 inches of snow will melt to one inch of liquid equivalent. This is an old rule of thumb that is hardly ever exactly true. An "average" snowfall, all things considered, in much of the snowy areas of the country will generally range from 10:1 to 15:1. A snowfall in colder conditions may get to 20:1, and a dry, less dense snowfall in colder conditions may hit 30:1. A map of the average snow to liquid ratios across the country can be seen at: URL_0 Let's take an average snowfall with a 12:1 ratio. If I predict a quarter inch of rain and you get three quarters of an inch, you're probably not even going to notice (barring ongoing flooding or some other extenuating circumstance), but let's apply the ratio and suddenly that 3 inch snowfall forecast becomes 9 - a HUGE difference.
This is called whole gut transit time and it varies from species to species. In humans it can take anywhere from 10-73 hours. This is very person specific and based on personal diet, activity and genetics. For instance, eating a large meal typically induces a bowl movement as your body is preparing for more digestion. I mentioned different rates for different species so here's some fun ones: most birds have a WGT of about three hours and eat more depending on energy requirements or temperature. Tortoises have a WGT of nearly two weeks! Yet eat such poor forage they are essentially always grazing.
You cycle through different stages of sleep, ranging from lightly asleep to hardcore asleep to dreaming: N1, N2, N3, REM. N1 is light sleep, the transition between awake and asleep. During the night, you move up and down these stages. Sleep isn't an on/off switch--it's a super complicated system. A lot of different things can run this system off the rails, so to speak, and leave you more likely to wake up during the night: alcohol, some medications, stress, sleep apnea, poor sleep habits, shift work, and a lot of other stuff. You can also be woken up during the night and simply not remember what it was that woke you up. For example, people with sleep apnea tend to believe that they woke up for no reason, but in reality they woke up because they stopped breathing, which you might recognize as a bit of a problem.
They get permits for filming. Some of them are just warehouses and houses and other locations just made up to look like wherever the scene is supposed to be taking place, others - like the beach for example is taking place on a beach, just the movie makers have the permit to film there and it's cleared out. Remember Porn is just stereotyped to be some smut with just the stars and some creepy guy with a camera, but it's a actually a whole production with cameras, a Director, Writer, Producer, Sound Guy, Lighting and Wardrobe. There is even a catering part of it, laying a buffet of food for every day filming. It isn't any different to production on TV & Movies save for the budget and content, everything else is the same; hell pornstars even have contracts and a union.
An OLED tv is a tv made up OLEDs - Organic LEDs. It works basically like a regular LED tv. To explain the significance of LEDs, I'll have to explain LCD displays first. Liquid Crystal Displays work by having a screen-wide backlight, and crystals in front of that backlight to manipulate the light it gives off into a viewable image. They're usually limited in brightness, as compared to an LED display. A Light Emitting Diode display has millions of tiny diodes, which as the name suggests, emit light individually, and control the color of light emitted through voltage. Since there isn't a crystal in front of the diode, it can emit a brighter light for you to see. Now, OLEDs are basically the same principle, but because of their structure, they have some properties, like being flexible, that make them much better than traditional LEDs for curved displays, either on a curved monitor, TV, or even the inside of a car windshield, where they're being prototyped by several manufacturers.
Hand sanitizer is mostly isopropyl alcohol. You put it on your hands, they get wet, then the alcohol evaporates away rather quickly and they get colder as they dry giving you a fresh clean feel. The alcohol may work to kill some surface germs, but the cool feeling from the evaporation is most likely what you're attributing to "clean" feel.
Hi, medical student here! The two classic things most people think of when stethoscopes are mentioned are listening to the heart and lungs so I'll address these. But they can also be used to listen to arteries and the intestines. What the stethoscope does is amplify vibrations. Things moving underneath the skin cause tiny little vibrations which normally we couldn't hear, but the stethoscope is able to pick them up. So, on to what we actually listen for. **Heart** Mostly what we listen for here are *heart sounds*. On top of just hearing blood rushing around in the heart, in a healthy person there should be another two distinct sounds that we hear, each referring valves closing in the heart. These are often referred to as "lub" and "dub". Two of the heart's four valves close when it starts to contract, and the other two close after it has finished contracting. If we hear extra heart sounds or can't hear the normal heart sounds then this can be a sign that something is wrong with the heart. As well as this, if we place the stethoscope in very specific places we can listen to each of the four valves individually. This allows us to hear if there is a problem with any of them. **Lungs** When listening to breathing, rather than heart sounds we're listening for *breath sounds*. [This Wikipedia page]( URL_0 ) has some good audio files of what we're listening for. Also, if we hear an abnormal sound in just one part of the lung that isn't present in the rest, then this tells us which part of the lung is diseased. We can hear this because air flows through the airways differently if there is lots of fluid (e.g. in an infection), if the airways are narrowed, if there is a hard object (e.g. a tumor), etc. It is just a case of learning what healthy sounds are and then learning what all the abnormal breaths sound like in order to help in a diagnosis. > How can they identify what's wrong with us by just hearing us breathe? I'd just like to quickly address this. We would never be able to make a diagnosis *purely* on the basis of listening to you breathe. It is just one tool that would be used alongside the other parts of a respiratory or cardiac exam, the questions we ask you, blood tests, etc. I once went to the Doc's for an irritatingly persistent (and... gooey) chest cold. He tells me to breathe in, winces a bit, then tells me to breathe out. And then says, verbatim, "Gross. Yeah, you have pneumonia." I took a listen. Yeah, gross is one word to describe the noise coming outta me. Sounded like trying to suck up a bunch of KY through a vacuum with a cheese cloth tied to the end. Stethescopes have the ability to audibly listen for irregularites or damage to your heart or lungs. Quick breathing in and out can help a doctor diagnose Bronchitis or Pneumonia from listening to your lungs or a heart afibrilation or tachycardia by listening to your heart. A stethescope is just one of many tools doctors use, but it's one of the most common tools used in just about every exam because every sick adult and children's lungs still sound roughly the same and the testing done with it is quick and simple, unlike scheduling an MRI or X-Ray. A little beside the point, since most of the good answers have already been given. But some other neat little things a Stethoscope can be used for: - Bowel Sounds: not the most sensitive test, but a doc can infer whether your bowel is completely inactive (ileus), normally active, or hyperactive w/ tinkling, which could imply an obstruction. - Reflex: for your lazy, non-Neurology docs who don't carry around a hammer, a Bell of the scope can be used as a handy hammer for testing reflex.
This is similar to a previous topic, except [this ELI5]( URL_1 ) was saying you'd feel worse at night due to your cortisol levels dropping, which is what [this article describes.]( URL_0 ) Basically your cortisol peaks during the day and therefore your body is not actively fighting off infections or viruses, so you feel better. At night the cortisol drops and your white blood cells begin attacking your illness... so you experience a fever, headache, and other symptoms of your immune system going to work. In the morning, your body has been fighting illness all night so your face is plugged up, you're dehydrated, and you're having to get up and move around after lying down for hours, and it's unpleasant. Chances are you didn't sleep very well, and this will make you feel worse. So it's a combination of your horizontal position, combined with a restless sleep and an active immune system that makes your cold symptoms feel worse in the morning. I always feel sick first thing and it wears off in the afternoon, and then at night it gets worse again... Maybe it has something to do with your metabolism and immune response?
For its time, it has very advanced graphics capabilities. It also was one of the first PCs to multitask. It used to be that computers could only do one thing at a time. If you want to copy a file, that is all your computer would be doing until the copy was done.
It can be done, with proper supervision. See the story of Angus Barbieri... URL_0 Fat isn't a complete source of everything we need. It is great to supplement an insufficient supply of food but not enough to completely replace all food. We would lack vitamins and minerals, etc. They can. They just don't. Also you need pretty close medical supervision for any water fast longer than a week or so. Weirdly, it's also healthier to exercise moderately when fasting rather than sitting doing nothing. It aids ketosis to kick in, otherwise your body burns "useless" muscle. Then you're in trouble. Although serious adverse health effects would occur, a fat person *could* not eat for a few days and just live on the fat reserves. From June 19 to July 14, I didn't eat anything beyond a bite or two a day (and sometimes not even that). We're talking a piece of bread, an egg ,or a small cookie. I lost 30 pounds (245 to 215) over 25 days. Thanks major depression. I would faint all the time after any sort of physical activity (including walking for an extended period). I was very physically weak, and unable to utilize much of the strength I had. I can lift my body weight relatively easily, but during that month I found it hard to lift more than 50 pounds. I was very tired as well. I felt awful, really. Can't say if that's because of the adverse effects of the malnutrition or if it was just the major depressive spell I was under.
Your body can only sense temperature differences, not actual temperature. For example, if you put your left hand in ice water and your right hand in warm water for a while, then dip both hands in lukewarm water, your left hand will feel hot while your right hand will feel cold even though they are feeling the same temperature water. During a fever, your entire body is at a higher temperature than normal. Normal is identical to having your hand in lukewarm water then putting it back in lukewarm water. During a fever, your body is like the hand in higher temperature water but then you place it in the lukewarm water (your normal surroundings) so you feel colder.
[Grammar Girl]( URL_0 ) is a good resource for learning grammar rules. In a professional setting, you'll probably need to use commas to separate items in a list (I think we'll need to get Janine in Accounting, Kevin in Legal, and TJ in HR involved in this), to join two clauses using and/but/or (I emailed Kevin about the Jones account, but haven't heard back), after a name in a multi-recipient email or IM conversation (TJ, can you look into this issue?), or following an "if" clause (If Janine can get that account up-to-date by Friday, we can move forward with the Jones upgrade). And [Strunk & White]( URL_1 ) is generally considered the classic English language style manual. It's a fairly quick read, and has a lot of good advice, particularly about not being too wordy, which is essential in a professional environment. Also, [The Oatmeal]( URL_2 ) has a nice comic on semicolon usage.
> processing power, data size That's exactly it. Larger resolution and FPS require more processing power as well as more bandwidth to transfer the large amount of data to the camera's storage.
Report them to the police and contact a lawyer to sue them. You should also call your phone company and tell them what is going on. Have you tried asking one of these people what information they've gathered about this company? I mean, if you know it's an air duct company, what's the company name? Can you look them up? Other than that, put your phone in nighttime mode, and call the phone company and tell them what's going on, file a complaint. Wherever they are, they have to place that call on a phone system and inject that mask as part of their call stream. I don't know what kind of logging they have, but they might just be able to trace the activity back where the caller ID is equal to yours but doesn't come from you. The other thing they can do is look at the call record of one of the victims, whose numbers you now have, and trace it back that way. Ask one of the victims the time their phone says the call was placed and ask for their assistance in case the phone company wants to call and ask them questions. Good luck.
Most of the other top level responses I see here are focusing on a certain type of non-newtonian fluid, notable shear thickening fluids like oobleck (the classic cornstarch/water mixure). However, as a general class, non-newtonian fluids are simply fluids that don't follow the Newtonian model of fluids. So: **What is a Newtonian Fluid?** Newtonian fluids have basically a linear relationship between local stress and strain in the fluid. What this means is that the fluid behaves in a more or less standard way, like water or air under more or less normal conditions. The forces from the fluid's viscosity are proportional to the stress or rate of change of the deformation of a fluid. This boils down to basically having a constant viscosity (the fluid doesn't get thicker or thinner depending on the pressure or how fast it is moving). Note that this is only a model, and like all models breaks down, specifically when fluids flow extremely fast or are under ultrahigh pressures or similar extreme situations. **How non-Newtonian fluids differ** Non-Newtonian fluids don't follow this relationship very well. For example, they can get more viscous as they deform (like oobleck), or as they deform they can get thinner (like ketchup, which is why it sticks in the bottle of the bottle and then seems to come out all at once. Other non-Newtonian fluids require a certain amount of stress before they begin to flow, like toothpastes and mustard. Non-Newtonian fluid is an umbrella term, a category, of fluids that diverge from the model that we use to describe most standard fluids.. **TL;DR: Newtonian fluids have the same viscosity no matter how fast they're flowing or how much force is being applied to them. Non-Newtonian fluids get thicker or thinner or more or less solid depending on how fast they're flowing or what forces are being applied to them.** Examples: Shampoo, hair gel, toothpaste. They are fluids, and yet they retain a shape for a period of time (maybe limited, maybe indefinite) unlike water, which immediately conforms to its container (or spills out on the ground). In terms of the above examples, it is easy to see why non newtonian fluids are useful in practical situations. If shampoo was a standard liquid, it would be very difficult to glob it onto your hand then put it in your hair. People also like the mouth-feels of non newtonian substances. Consider icecream. Not a perfect non newtonian fluid, but it shares the general characteristics. From Wikipedia: (first Google result, doncha know) > A non-Newtonian fluid is a fluid with properties that are different in any way from those of Newtonian fluids. Most commonly, the viscosity (the measure of a fluid's ability to resist gradual deformation by shear or tensile stresses) of non-Newtonian fluids is dependent on shear rate or shear rate history.
There's a muscle in your ear called the [tensor tympani muscle]( URL_0 ). It usually dampens sounds from your mouth (like chewing and breathing). When you "block" your ears you are tightening this muscle. Tightening a muscle causes the fibers to vibrate, which makes sound.
It stands for High Dynamic range and basically takes a photo on a series of exposure settings then patches the best parts together to create a final outcome which tends to have improved shadowing and highlights
When the nerves in a certain area are deprived of their nutrients especially electrolytes, they begin to fire frantically. This causes the pins and needles feeling.
Eggs in the US are washed of a natural protective coating. Reason being it contains trace amounts of fecal matter. This lowers the risk of infection from accidental handling, but means the eggs themselves ar emore likely to go bad if left un-refrigerated. In the US, eggs are pasteurized to kill any salmonella. The pasteurization process involves enough heat that afterwards they need to be kept cool. Other countries require all hens to be immunized from salmonella, ensuring the eggs are free of the disease.
When you're standing, your heart has to do more than just pump blood to your feet; it has to pump with enough pressure to bring the blood BACK UP the legs too, and also pump blood up to the brain (both fighting gravity). The heart has a few functional things it can change, but here we'll just talk about how fast it beats, and how much blood it pumps per heartbeat. Obviously, both of those factors are working pretty hard when standing (which also makes giraffes pretty amazing animals), and when switching suddenly to lying down that gravity is instantly not forcing the heart to work as hard. Since it takes a few seconds to adjust how the heart is working, it will still be pumping a LOT of blood with suddenly almost zero resistance. In order to continue pumping correctly (until the heart adjusts), the heart has to pump faster to keep up.
Your immersing the wound into a hypertonic environment(high salinity) which will then cause your cells to move water toward the solution. This Hydrates the wound while also killing bacteria due to the salinity, speeding up the healing process. That's about all I got off the top of my head. People are talking about antiseptic properties and the placebo effect, neither of which adequately address your question. An Epsom salt bath does two things. First, it's a warm bath. Applying heat to a muscle injury increases blood flow and relaxes muscle spasm. The old rule of cold for inflammation and heat for pain reflects this. You're immersing the limb in a warm liquid - basically surrounding it with a fluid heating pad. Second, adding Epsom (or other salt) to the water raises its density, increasing the buoyancy of anything immersed in it. Increasing the buoyancy of a soaking bath allows the person bathing to use their muscles less to support their weight while in the bath. Because you float easier. "Float" or sensory deprivation tanks use this to extreme effect, with highly concentrated Epsom salt baths that allow you to effortlessly float on the top of the water. Taking the strain off the muscle + applying uniform heat = relaxation, pain reduction, and increased mobility. It didn't heal anything faster, but it likely relieved spasm and discomfort.
Even while you are fast asleep your ears still pick up sound and send that information to your brain. Your brain tries to work out what sounds it can safely ignore (like the sound of your own breathing/pyjamas moving against sheets) and what sounds might be coming from something dangerous (like a bear/snake/volcanic eruption). Your brain is very jumpy (that's how your ancestors stayed alive) and it wakes you up when it thinks that a noise is a threat, but lets you sleep when it thinks there's nothing to worry about. Your brain also learns which noises are fine and which noises are worth waking up for - that's why when you stay somewhere new you might struggle to sleep with all the new noises for the first couple of nights but after a while you sleep through everything. It's also why you can see babies sleeping on public transport with noise all around them, but if it's the middle of the night and someone slams a car door down the street they'll wake up. With your dad's way of waking you up your brain learned that the noise of his footsteps (or maybe another noise before that) meant you would soon be getting a huge fright, so your brain started waking you up when it heard your dad coming as a way of trying to keep you safe from a potential threat.
Your blood vessels react to temperature. When your body is cold, they tighten up and become smaller, in order to retain your body heat. When your body is hot, they relax and open up wide. So when you put heat on a sore area... say, drinking something hot to soothe a sore throat, it's causing the blood vessels in your throat to open up wide and increase blood flow to the painful area. More blood means more oxygen and nutrients, which means your sore throat can heal faster. Hot drinks aren't just dulling your pain, they're helping you heal! Heat also stimulates your nerve ending and sends a signal to the brain: "hey, we're aware of the problem down here and it's being taken care of!" Pain is just your body's way of telling you there's a problem, so once your brain knows heat is being applied and the healing process is doing its job, it figures you got the message and stops registering so much pain.
Because it's caused by contractions of the diaphragm. The sudden intake or exhale of air causes it to be in short bursts. & nbsp; When your brain thinks something is funny, sends a bunch of happy hormones around your body. You diaphragm spasms, contracting your lungs, the expulsion of air causes you to need to breath, this cycle increases your heart rate to get oxygen to all the important parts of your body, which stimulates the release of endorphins, which increase pain tolerance, and make you happier. Why does it do this? We're not entirely sure. The leading theory is that it's a way to bond with a group (which is an important trait for primates). As laughter is often contagious, when everybody is getting happy hormones, they want to keep the group around. I literally just burst out laughing for this one 😂 like I could hear the different laughters in my head god Can you imagine that? You tell a joke and your friend just screams at you for a full minute I do the "haaaaa" laugh, quite often. Family members laugh at my laugh. I would rather know why we pronounce in "laeff" when it is spelled "laugh". English language is strange.
There's actually no conclusive study on this that shows that serif fonts are genuinely easier to read than san serif fonts. The idea is that the extra markings make a letter more immediately distinguishable from another letter. By having more angles on a letter, there is sharper contrast to one another and to the white background that offers a more visually interesting stimulus than the rounded letters. [Studies show that people overwhelmingly prefer them subjectively, and that comprehension increases in serif fonts]( URL_0 ). But there's no data to support they're actually "easier on the eyes" in any form. If they are, it's a slight variation that you can think of in terms of something being easier to read for the eyes when it's in sharp forcus than when it's slightly blurry. The extra angular stimulus may produce a similar effect to additional "focus."
Does it?! I'm almost finished with my masters degree now and nobody ever mentioned that. Feels like I wasted all my university life.
Tactile feedback is improved, resulting in less missed keys, AND key actuation rate (the speed at which the keys move up and down) is greatly improved, resulting in a more fluid key movement, which can contribute quite a bit to speed.
Two things. First, we don't only exxhale CO2. Each breath is about 4-5% CO2. So blowing on the fire does send some oxygen than way directly. Blowing also clears out the dead air in the fire (CO2 being heavier) allowing normal air to replace it. The difference in CO2 between inhaled and exhaled breath is surprisingly small. Natural air is about 78% nitrogen, 21% oxygen, and less than 1% everything else, including carbon dioxide, argon and other substances. The air you exhale is about 5% carbon dioxide and about 15% oxygen. So it's still a lot of oxygen. Moreover, when you blow on a flame, the air you exhale is also pushing a lot more ambient air along with it (sort of like how you can make a huge splash of water in the pool using just your hand, because the patch of water you hit makes a little wave that captures more water.) So the air that hits the flame is likely to be very close to the same amount of oxygen as regular air. Compared to this, if there is no significant air current, the flame from the fire may be depleting the oxygen immediately nearby almost completely (i.e., the air next to the flame may quickly go down to far less than 15% oxygen). This is similar to the reason why if you blow on your hands to dry them off, the air traveling over your hands will indeed dry them faster, even though the air is coming from inside your wet lungs and mouth. There's just so much more of it that it's more efficient. Because we inhale about 20% oxygen and exhale about 15% oxygen. Meaning we aren't using all the oxygen in the air we breath. So we dont exhale pure CO2... edit: not unless we were breathing very stale air.
It mainly has to do with the monopoly that ISP's hold over different areas. Most people have one choice for their internet provider. It's not like you can switch to a different company if you aren't happy with their shit service. Another thing is that the capacity for fast internet exists it's just that they have no reason to give it to you. My city recently became a prospective city for google fiber and TWC immediately upgraded our 20mb/s connection (maximum available) to 100mb/s for free and also started offering 200mb/s and 300mb/s for not much extra. They're also doing everything they can lawsuit wise to keep google fiber out of the city Verizon has the best coverage, but it's not the fastest, I'm visiting family in Atlanta and I get > 110Mbps on T-Mobile. Though, I'm on their Wi-Fi as [it's much faster]( URL_0 ) (he's an exec at HP so gotta have fast Internet). 90% of the answer is because they can. 10% of the answer is because money, America is huge, and dense, so having to have thousands/millions of cell towers spread across the country and having hundreds in a single city is expensive in regards to renting out the land, supplying enough data per tower, etc. Of all of the countries to use as an example, you use Australia? They still have a good chunk of the country on dialup since it's such a large region but has only six or so metropolitan areas. Really, America's internet speeds aren't that bad. They're not #1 but I think they were in the top 10. Meanwhile, Australia is still trying to build a fiber network but its own government keeps sabotaging it Several reasons: 1. there's little or no competition in most markets. 2. the cost of starting up puts it out of reach for most companies. Even Google is growing insanely slow due to the cost of laying new lines 3. we've got other problems. My Internet is reliable (like 95%+ uptime) and fast enough (50 Mb) for just about anything my family of 4 needs for $65 a month. The only way things are going to change is if we make a widespread political effort to change it and frankly, my efforts there are better spent on other issues. Speeds are so slow because the telecom industry in America is a monopoly. In certain areas you only have one choice for a provider, so why would they spend money to improve their services if you don't have any other choice? The telecom industry has been vigorously lobbying and filing lawsuits to prevent competition. Things like poles, switches, and boxes (the kind you find outside) are owned and rented out. Lawsuits have been thrown around to prevent other companies from using those utilities which makes it hard to compete. Telecom companies also sign deals with the cities themselves. If the city attempts to provide their own internet they would get sued. The only reason Google Fiber was able to become a thing is because Google could afford to build their own utilities and fight in court with a chance of winning. The American telecom industry is the poster child of corruption and bad morals and ethics. They are not satisfied with their 97% profit margins and don't care one bit about making the world a better, more connected place. It is because of Google Fiber that companies like Comcast are finally starting to improve their networks, because it is clear to both sides that the moment Google Fiber is available everybody will jump ship. These companies are fully aware of what they are doing and how damaging they are and are terrified that their monopoly will end. Most people here simply do not understand how absurdly expensive running fiber is here in the US. A lot of it is all the codes and standards, environmental protections etc. Just to give you an example. When we tried to build a single fiber run to a local school, the cost was $75,000. We got an estimate for wiring the entire small city for fiber (every home) and it came out to about $35 million. That's for about 15,000 people. That's almost $2400 per person if every single one of those 15,000 signs up. That's just the fiber and equipment, no bandwidth to backhaul providers, etc. And this involves no big greedy corporations who just want to charge you a ton of money because they are evil and diabolical as is the common belief on Reddit. And in the real world, this notion that bandwidth costs nothing is simply untrue. Sure there are some companies that trade bandwidth. So long as they are both sending each other the same amount of data each way, they don't charge each other for that mutual bandwidth. But its not very common for ISPs. The US is very vast and has lot of mountains in many areas. Those long distances cost a huge amount of money to cover, as do areas like mountains. So take the endless claims that it's all about big greedy corporations with a grain of salt. Feel free to do some research and see how much it would cost you if you were to build your own fiber network non-profit and you will see for yourself. You won't get 200Mbps on Telstra LTE most of the time unless you're very lucky. First of all, the guy is in Melbourne, speedtesting to a Telstra server. Telstra has its HQ in Melbourne, and they have very strong mobile reception here (plus in other cities). But outside of the bigger cities, or even in the suburbs, the mobile cells are further spaced out, so there's more congestion and generally the speeds drop off a bit. It is pretty good though, I'm currently getting 85Mbps inside my house (Melbourne suburbs, about 8km from the CBD). Telstra is a world leader in LTE technology, they're investing a lot of money in it. If you moved to another carrier, you wouldn't get as good service. However the fixed line internet in Australia is nowhere near as good, as other commenters have said. Also, mobile data is expensive here, especially with Telstra (best network, so they charge more). You get 10GB on a $120/month plan with an iPhone 7 (unlimited talk and text). And when you go over the 10GB, it doesn't throttle your speed, you get charged at a $10/GB rate. Source: I'm currently doing an internship at Telstra :) LOL, sure you can get those speeds in Aus, but i mean you have a max of like 25GB before you start paying $10 per GB over that. Source: Am an internet seller man America is where the technology is developed. As a result it's usually the first country to get things and gets technology 1.0. As the technology gets deployed people figure improvements, better ways to do stuff, upgrades, etc and technology 2.0 is developed. Usually this updated technology is deployed in the rest of the world after the USA. So why don't you just upgrade the technology? Well, upgrading usually costs more money, and technology 1.0 tends to be good enough. BTW, this doesn't just refer to LTE cell phones, but to credit card chips (which most of the world had before us), and other stuff that's deployed first to the US and later to the world. I work for T-Mobile as a project manager. We are the fastest in our area and many others but it really depends on the spectrum owned by the carrier. The US government (FCC) Is in charge of dividing up the available spectrum via auctions. 5MHZ of additional spectrum can cost billions of dollars per market (geographic area). That's the reason he carriers are always trying to merge or buy each other out. It isn't the towers, customers, or equipment. It's the spectrum. The carrier with the most bandwidth owns the speed and thus owns the customers. It's a vicious game. There's an Adam Ruins Everything on this. If I remember correctly the TLDR is that since the govt thought that I'd all be just a fad, they didn't stop monopalization- There's barely any competition so no pressure to get any better. Collusion. Companies spend the absolute bare minimum they need to maintain their networks and strike deals amongst themselves so as not to have to compete with anyone else. When someone like Google Fiber comes into the market, they use lawyers and politicians to help keep them out and protect their fiefdoms. The geographical area that is covered in other countries is is tiny compared to in the US. Even in countries that are larger than 1/50th of the US, they still only supply internet to their larger cities and metropolitan areas. Also, CDMA is an anti-competitive technology. Verizon is a CDMA company in the US. Everywhere else, GSM (Like T-Mobile and AT & T) is mandated and pretty much open to competitive forces which improve service and decrease consumer costs.
Because they cannot get to that position in the first place without being self serving, at least to some degree. Fully altruistic people never survive in politics long enough to get to any high ranks. Now there are a lot of politicians who have a large dose of altruism, but even these have problems getting to high ranks. Well, you could make some cynical comment about only self-serving people wanting and getting into power in the first place. A different way to look at things would involve look at just how much power a leader really has. Most people in positions of power are only there because of the people who support them. Even the greatest autocratic dictators is beholden to his supporters. they have to keep the people who keep them in power happy. By the time anybody reaches the top they have so many strings attached to them that even the most idealistic person will be forced to do all sorts of corrupt and underhand things just to stay in power. You can't get into power and you can't stay there without being at least slightly corrupt even in a democracy. Power corrupts. That much is true. However the process of attaining power also corrupts just as much as the power itself will.
credit ratings aren't related to the government. it's a for-profit institution that benefits other for-profit institutions (lending banks). credit bureaus don't work for you the individual, they sell your rating to the banks.
when you work out, your body breaths in more oxygen, but you exhale C02. Fat loss comes from you exhaling c02. Fat is broken down into C02 when you are working out. Let's clear up a few things. First, we're not converting mass to energy. That's E=MC^2. For every gram of mass you converted, you'd be looking at (1 gram) * (3*10^8)^2 or around 9 * 10^13 joules. I like metric, but I like TNT better. So that's the rough equivalent of 21.5 kilotons (21,000 tons) of TNT. But reactions aren't perfect. We're happy if we get a small fraction of matter conversion in a warhead designed to take advantage of this phenomenon. But, even if we're only operating at 1/1,000,000th efficiency, we run in to a couple of problems. First, we're converting matter at a 1/1,000,000 efficiency (that means for every gram that we burn, we're actually only losing a microgram of mass). But the real problem is money. Every time we lose a couple of grams, we have to buy a new expensive scale (one that accurately measures in grams), AND probably re-furnish the bathroom, if not the house. (I need Mr. Munroe to draw a stick figure here, with explosive flatus or something). ============================== Here's the real deal, if you want to skip the fun above it ============================== Fat people aren't fat, we're just incredibly efficient at socking away chemical energy. I like this explanation because efficient sounds productive, and productive sounds like I'm getting things done, and that implies that I'm too busy to get to the gym and it's just more productive for me to sit here and be efficient. We (humans and most other organisms that read here) get most of our energy from burning glucose. We gotta get stuff down to glucose (sugar) before we enter in to the big energy cycle. For an indepth look: URL_0 URL_1 For a quick look (less digression, I promise, maybe): So, get to this point understanding that we're going to throw "boxes" of glucose at our citric acid cycle. We want to "unpack" it a bit, but that's essentially how it works. The body takes boxes of glucose, and "tapes" them together to form fat. Fat actually takes some energy to make (taping them together and boxing them), and actually takes some energy to "unpack". The "Tape" and "boxes" that are holding the glucose together are essentially made of carbon dioxide and water. It takes a little bit to make it, there is energy in the bonds between all of the parts, and it takes a little bit of energy to break those bonds as well. But, while fat is a very chemically efficient method of storage, it is not volumetrically efficient. Fat cells have a large water content, and fat molecules aren't compact and space efficient. And here's the rub: Typically, our body is pretty lazy. When we want to burn energy, it's easy to snag a passing box of glucose and throw it at the citric acid cycle. Nobody wants to go to the storage unit and unpack the glucose that's hiding in the fat boxes. As long as we have easy to use glucose (or anything that's easier than going to the storage unit), we're not going to unpack things. So, part of dieting is denying the body easy access to free glucose, so that it is forced to send "someone" to unpack the fat storage, and start burning that glucose. Looking for a percentage of where it goes is difficult. I will bet that there were some studies using deuterium tagged organic molecules, looking to see where and in what concentration the body excreted them (too lazy... I mean, efficient... to look that up), but that's also an oversimplification of the process. Much of it is, in fact, water, simply because large amounts of fat molecules need large amounts of water in the cell with them (cells are mostly water). If that doesn't work for you, I can probably do a Lego description. I'm not home for a couple of days, so no visuals.
Kelvin is just the Celsius scale re-balanced so that 0 is absolute zero. The increment of Celsius is based on the temperatures that water freezes (0 Celsius) and boils (100 Celsius). That's the point of the Kelvin scale. Zero is set at the point where all atomic vibration, which we detect as heat, stops. There is no way for a -1 kelvin as it doesn't make sense as a concept.
It depends on the country, and even then the definitions vary depending on context. In the UK, a university is a conglomeration of colleges (e.g. Oxford is comprised of 38 colleges). In America, they're pretty much synonymous, with college being more slang but university being a more formal word. In Australia, college refers to a large (and often old-fashioned) student residential hall that is affiliated with a university. College can also refer to a secondary school (grades 7-12ish, depending of the state). In America, usually we say a university is made of multiple colleges. For example, a liberal arts college will grant a collection of bachelors degrees, and maybe higher degrees, in the arts, social sciences, etc. A large university will probably have a College of Liberal Arts but also have a College of Engineering, College of Business, etc that each grant their own bachelors degrees and probably also have Masters and PhD programs. So for my undergrad I went to UC Davis but my major was in the College of Arts and Sciences. In order to graduate I had to meet requirements set by both the University and College.
Hello! Here is as ELI5 as I can make it: Imagine the spinal cord as a thin wire that branches into smaller wires at body side of things. The tip of each branched portion is responsible for delivering messages corresponding to different kinds of stimuli (touch/pain/temperature etc.). Because the spinal cord is thin (keep in mind this is simplified), different signals compete to travel up the spinal cord and be "felt." To address your question directly, muscle soreness is helped by rubbing because rubbing introduces a new kind of stimuli. Before rubbing, dull pain stimulus from your muscle soreness was moving up the spinal cord uncontested. After rubbing, the dull pain is competing with your new touch input. Thus you "drown out" the pain signal with touch signal. Rubbing a cut doesn't work the same way because your input is activating both the touch and the pain receptors in that area. In such regions, pain receptors are often hyperactive, which causes them to outcompete other input. Hope that helps! (Some of the more astute neuroscientists will realize that I left out Lateral Inhibition, but I'll let you Google that on your own) Edit: grammar A muscle's natural state is to be relaxed. Contraction causes movement. A "sore" muscle is in a contracted state even when it shouldn't be. Massaging it causes the muscle fibers to relax (heat will do the same thing) which can relieve the soreness. An acute injury usually involves injury to nerves. Any pressure on these injured nerves will stimulate the nerve which causes pain. All injuries require bloodflow in order to heal. Massaging a muscle will bring more blood there, thereby increasing healing (heatpacks work too for this reason). If you overly touch a cut or something similar, then you will be causing more damage through reopening wound, tearing skin further, or causing infection. I have to point out that pain relief comes a while after the actual massage. The act of massaging a sore muscle can be quite painful, much like manipulating a bruised or injured body part. Muscles soreness (often called DOMS) occurs when muscles perform eccentric or lengthening contractions such as in your biceps when you lift weights or in your hamstrings when running. These contractions cause microscopic tears which trigger an immune reaction by the body to try and heal itself. This reaction - inflammation - lowers the pain threshold of the nerves so that they are more sensitive to pain. The reason the body responds this way (aka causes pain) is so that we are aware of the injury and more careful when using it. Essentially, sore muscles are caused by micro tears in a muscle and the body responds with inflammation which leads to pain. Massaging sore muscles helps to relieve muscle pain for several reasons: * Massaging helps reduce the production of inflammatory cytokines (proteins that cause inflammation). * Massaging has been shown to increase the production of mitochondria in a cell, which aid in tissue recovery. * Massaging sore muscles also provides some of the same benefits as stretching: namely increasing flexibility and relaxing the contracted muscle. When you have an acute injury such as a cut or burn, your nerves react in a similar way as they do in sore muscles, by becoming inflamed and more sensitive to pain. However, touching an acute injury can be incredibly painful compared to the pain of massaging a sore muscle. The reason for this is twofold. First and most importantly, the nerves in a cut or burn are exposed to the elements. When you touch a cut or burn you are directly touching these nerves, whereas when you massage a sore muscle the nerves are far beneath the surface of your skin. Secondly, there are generally more pain receptor nerve ending on the surface of your skin because that is where the body interacts with the environment. This is especially true for areas like your fingertips or face. TLDR: Massaging sore muscles helps to reduce inflammation and therefore reduce pain and increases the production of microconidia which aid in tissue recovery. When you touch an open wound you are *directly* touching nerves that are already inflamed and overly sensitive due to injury.
What you may be refering to is the Pitch Tone of the message. High pitch notfication sounds are going to sound higher than lower pitch ones. When i get an amber alert, it uses a stock notfication sound not my normal one which is a higher pitch however it will not bypass my volume settings so that might be throwing you off Also phone speakers can go higher then what they are limited to, The reason makers lock it is because it begins to become distored and thats not good for business. Phones make a noise for an amber alert? Amber alerts are designed with a few things in mind. One of those important things is to amplify the importance of a message being broadcast. in order to do so, the audio for the broadcast is fitted to the most sensitive spectrum of the average humans' hearing. this means that regardless of technical volume, the messages sent for an amber alert, or another alert, would be heard as louder due to their being within the most sensitive spectrum of the human ear. How else are you supposed to know to be on the lookout for a missing child (from a different city), at 2am while you're asleep in bed? Obviously, it has to be loud enough to wake you up. Your phone can clearly go that loud because it makes that sound. But the sound level is unpleasant(music and video would sound horrible) and potentially damaging(your hearing) that app designers don't want that. Assuming you're talking about the 'emergency alert system' tone (which is what my phone plays for amber alerts anyway) that sound is just two sine waves mixed together. A sine wave is a pure sound consisting of just one frequency at a constant volume. This will sound louder than music, which is a complex combination of many different frequencies. Plus with music, the dynamics change over time, so the perceived average sound volume will be less than the maximum level the device is capable of playing. It really is kind of stupid. I had one go off at 2am the other night too. Sure, I'll be on the lookout for that silver Tahoe in my bedroom, ill even check my closet for you just in case. Lurker here, my apologies in advanced for accidentally breaking any rules. It's because it's a continuous tone, non changing, meaning the driver/speaker can focus uninterrupted at oscillating for that single note (I believe). Now for the fun part: About a year ago I was taking a communications class (core requirement), and it just happened to be with a professor that would royally hate people using phones in his class. Seemed like unjustified hate, considering the fact he'd go on about people wasting time distracting others by using cellphones when he'd take 15-20 minutes ranting about it with the entire class, making everyone uncomfortable by putting a college student on the spot. Well, this particular instance we were taking a midterm... and the class was 40-50 people... The guy is sitting at his desk at the front of the classroom when suddenly at the end of the first row, a chick's phone starts playing the alert tone, REALLY FREAKING LOUD. She quickly pulls it out and fumbles it as she frantically tries silencing it. Guy looks up looking pretty annoyed, gets up and starts marching to her desk already ranting as to how her test is now invalid due to her "inability to silence the device or turn it off." Well, as he's about to arrive at her seat the electronic choir kicks in and you've got every single phone in the classroom buzzing the dissonant tune... He panics and asks, "What the hell is that? Are we being freaking invaded!?" Lmao, as you can imagine everyone started laughing. Turns out he didn't know AMBER alerts play a similar tone as the EAS. He gave the test back to the gal and sat his ass down, lol. Edit: Tried answering the question this time. In a related question, why do I get an amber alert because a child 400 miles away from me was driven away with his or her biological father. Is there some specific reason to believe most of these fathers are going to be driving straight through my town? Have most of these fathers been charged with abuse or at least driving under the influence? It all seems like the amber alert is becoming the allegorical "boy who cried wolf" if half of them are in no real danger at all. Does the UK or Europe have anything similar (where they take over your phone)?
It's like baseball (so I'll try and use lots of baseball terms) but with five key differences to the rules: 1\. Instead of four bases, there's only two bases. 2\. There's a [wicket]( URL_0 ) behind each base. If the pitcher hits the wicket when he is pitching then the batter is out. 3\. Instead of one batter starting the game, two batters start the game, one on each base. They can swap bases during a play, each swap counting as a run. They do this until one gets out. Then a new batsman comes out. 4\. The pitcher normally tries to bounce the ball before the batter hits it, instead of throwing it at the batter. 5\. The bases are in the middle of the field, so the batter can hit the ball in any direction: sideways, behind, or in front. So on a normal play the pitcher runs in, throws the ball, and the batter tries to hit it. (The batter can miss the ball as much as he wants as long as the ball doesn't hit the wicket. There are no strikes and he doesn't have to run if he doesn't want to). The batter tries to hit the ball far away so the two batters can swap bases, scoring runs. If the ball goes along the ground to the fence, then the batter gets 4 runs. If its a home run over the fence on the full then he gets 6 runs. The pitcher tries to either hit the wicket, get the batter to hit the ball in the air so someone can catch it, or run out the batter before he can reach a base. When 10 batters are out, the other team come on and pitches. Whichever team scores the most runs wins. It varies by type but generically: One team is in bat, the other fields. The bowler bowls a set number of balls and the batters try to hit them. At then end of that set (an over) the bowler changes. When the batter hits the ball, he can choose to run. Both batters have to run, swapping ends. If they're successful, that's a run (1 point). They can get as many runs as they have time for. The bowler is aiming for the wicket - three stumps with 2 bails balanced on top. Ifcthat is knocked by the ball or the batter, he is out and another batter takes his place. If the batter hits the ball and someone catches it, he's out. If the fielders hit the wicket with the ball while the batters are in the middle of completing a run, the batter heading for that wicket is out. If the bowler ball hits the batter's leg and the umpire determines that it would otherwise have hit the wicket, the batter is out (LBW - leg before wicket). i.e. The batter may only defend the wicket with the bat. If the batter hits the ball and it crosses the boundary while still in the air, that's 6 runs scored. If it bounces or rolls across, 4 runs. An innings finishes when there are no spare batsmen, after a certain number of overs or a certain amount of time, depending on the version and the teams swap. The game is over after a certan number of overs, innings or time depending on the version. The team that scored the most runs wins. New-fangled 20-20 cricket (each team gets 1 innings of 20 overs) can last a couple of hours. A traditional test match (2 innings each, unlimited overs) can last 5 days. What are some of the batting strategies. I've only seen it once or twice and both times very briefly. You don't seem to go for the long ball and how would you hit behind you ? How many fielders are there ? Most people have covered the main playing differences, but I don't think any have touched on FIELDING compared to baseball. In baseball, the fielding positions are pretty much set. You have basemen, outfielders, a catcher, a shortstop and a pitcher. In cricket, the fielding positions vary greatly depending on the batsman, the bowler and the stage of the match. There's a large amount of ground to cover (roughly 160m x 160m in a circle around the batsman) and only 10 fielders to cover it. The fielding positions are set by the fielding captain, and traditionally although they might get advice from other fielders, the final decision is always up to the captain. The fielders aren't just randomly scattered around the field, they set very specific fields for the circumstances. For example, in the opening overs of a test match, the main strike fast bowler might have a field that consists of a wicketkeeper (the only fielder allowed to wear gloves), 4 slips, a gully, point, mid-off, mid-on and the other fast bowler resting at third man. While to the casual eye, this looks like they're only defending a very small portion of the field, there is a reason for the positions - early in the game the batsmen won't be taking risks, but there is an increased chance that a new hard ball might deflect off the edge of a bat behind the wicket for a catch, so the fielders are concentrated in those positions. Conversely, if you're trying to prevent the batting team from scoring runs, or fielding to a different type of bowler such as a medium-pacer or spinner, you'll have different fields set. Setting fields is a very big part of the tactics of the game, which might be new to someone who is only familiar to baseball. Some other sundry differences. - Number of players - In baseball, I believe you can use as many players as you want in a game from your roster. In cricket, 11 players are selected, with a "12th man" selected who can be used as a substitute fielder, and relays messages for the captain or coach. - Specialisation vs flexibility - In cricket, the 11 selected players are the only players who can bowl, bat and wicket-keep. So a team would typically select 6 batsmen, a wicketkeeper and 4 bowlers, but every player has to bat and various batsmen might bowl during the match to provide variety or relief for the main bowlers.
There's a [treaty] ( URL_0 ) that forbids countries from claiming territory in outer space. That means that while theoretically a private company could simply go up there and claim it, but it wouldn't be recognised by any earthly government... they'd have to set up their own government
A bunch of people aren't reporting their income, mostly because it's gained through illegal means (like the black market). This income is kept hidden in their homes generally, and isn't stored in banks. In order to combat this, the Indian government surprised everyone by suddenly announcing that all their most common bills no longer have value, and must be exchanged for new bills. It would be like if the US government said "we're getting rid of the $10 and $20 bills and replacing them with $15 and $30 bills." Anyone who wants their money to have value must take it to a bank to exchange it, where the amount they exchange will be recorded. Those with a ton of "black money", i.e. money gained through illegal means and not reported for taxes, will be exposed. I'm an Indian. Our currency is a rupee. We're more like England than we like to admit. Our note denominations are like 10, 20, 50, 100, 500, 1000. Well it was like that for about 35 years or so. Before that we didn't have 1000 rupee notes. The 1000 rupee note was created to remove black money. In November 2016 the government discontinued the 1000 & 500 rupee notes and introduced new notes with denominations 2000 & 500. This was done to force people to come out and exchange their cash. We were given about 3 months with a daily cash exchange limit and also a daily deposit/withdrawal limit. Apart from the daily limit there was an additional total limit which was about 2-2.5 Lacs (200,000-250,000). Old 500 and 1000 rupee notes have been rendered useless after 31st December, 2016. This means if your money is already in the bank you're safe but if you have more cash lying around the house than you should then you're screwed. I don't know if you know this but 80% of the transactions in India are done in cash. Although I am inclined to believe that in the long run this is a bad move. This mostly affected the poor and the middle class. More than 80 people died standing in bank cues. We didn't manage to get the amount of black money that was expected, naturally. Plus statistics show that since the last time this happened the consumption of black money has increased. It looks to me like black money can now be stored in smaller briefcases. I'm sleepy or I would have gone into more detail. This makes for an odd time. As I recall the week before this happened and about a week after the retail location I work at had a massive influx of indian-national customers looking to buy predominately Apple products in bulk. We put a hard limit on ipad and macbook quickly as our stock diminished very quickly but I had people screaming at me that they NEEDED 50 Ipads and 10 Macbooks. They paid in USD but the announcement which occurred on a Wednesday really seemed to put two and two together.
First, there are hundreds of types of cancer, so this is just a general outline. Cancer occurs when a cell accumulates mutations that cause it to grow and divide inappropriately. For instance, the gene p53 is often mutated in cancers because it creates a protein that monitors DNA for damage and triggers cell death if the damage is too severe. This mutation allows for further mutations to accumulate in a cell. Other mutations do things like allow a cell to grow and divide independently of the growth factors that are supposed to trigger growth and division, or allow a cancer cell to evade the immune system, which is another layer of defense that the body has to combat cancer. Once enough of these mutations accumulate in one cell, it begins dividing out of control, creating more and more copies of itself. First generation chemotherapy was developed to target this characteristic of the cells, but it isn't very specific. It kills all rapidly dividing cells in the body, including those in the hair follicles, the lining of the gut, etc. Therefore, it's a war of attrition against these cancer cells with many normal cells in the body also suffering casualties. You're basically using poison that's supposed to kill the cancer a little bit more than it's killing you. Cancer has "defenses" against chemo, however. Due to the inherent instability of its DNA, it has a heightened potential to evolve a resistance to the chemo that allows it to tolerate the poisoning and continue to grow. Cancer kills you when the primary tumor develops the ability to send its cells into you blood stream and lymphatic system where they will land somewhere else and start growing more tumors. Once this process has reached a certain stage, you can't kill the cancer fast enough to save the person. There's a limit to how much chemotherapy a person can tolerate and how much good it can do to slow or stop the growth of the cancer. Chemotherapy by itself is often insufficient to cure cancer, which is why surgery is so often included in treatment plans.
There has been a weird and surprising amount of research done on belly button lint! Lint collects mechanically by body hairs, as you move. Most lint comes from your underpants! There's a lot of blue dye in clothing.
Everyone else is wrong. Math isn't arbitrary, there are reasons for everything. Let me give a simple example. Lets find out how much money you have. You have a dollar and 3 five dollar bills. A math equation would be 1 + 3 x 5 = If you think about it like money, you know you have $16 and not $20. There is no reason to add the $1 to the number of bills you have. But why? The answer is just to ask, "What is multiplication?" Multiplication is just short had for repetitive addition. If we expand the equation we get 1 + 5 + 5 + 5 = Now if we add everything together it's easy to see the correct answer. It's easier to see that adding the one to either the 3 or the 5 completely messes up the short hand. Well what about exponents? Again exponents are just short hand for multiplication. 2^3 2^3 = 8 2 x 2 x 2 = 8 2 + 2 + 2 + 2 = 8 Because exponents are short hand for multiplication, they must be addressed first or you mess up the original meaning. Multiplication and division come next as they are both the same. Dividing by 2 is the same as multiplying by .5. Then addition and subtraction as they are the same. 5 - 2 is the same as 5 + -2. It's not so much as we "determined" them so much as "defined" them. That is, the system of notation we've come up with to describe mathematics *is* something we've come up with. And part of that is doing things in a particular order. Take these two equations: > (2 + 3) * 4 = 20 and > 2 + (3 * 4) = 14 Two totally different answers. We use the parentheses to override the normal order of operations in the first equation, and I just put them in on the second equation where they're implied to be. Because the two different setups give us two different answers, there *must* be a standard order in which to do them in order to get the same answer. We happened to choose multiplication and division to go before addition and subtraction and to put parentheses when we need to override that, but it would have worked equally well to do it the other way around. There's no firm mathematical reason why it is the way it is, except that it has to be *some* standard way. Xeno's post is wrong, not everybody else. We defined it that way and we did so to remove ambiguity. With no convention there is ambiguity if 1+3 x 5 Should be interpreted as (1+3) x 5 or 1 + (3 x 5) or even (1+5) x 3 All the order of operations does is post a convention that removes ambiguity and provides *one* correct way of interpreting it. One of these cases no longer needs brackets because it is the default case. We could chose a different order of operations, making the default case different. Importantly, it's still possible to make all of those expressions because brackets take precedence. Literally all the order of operations does is remove brackets. E.g., 1 + (3 x 5) = 1 + 3 x 5 That's the default case so they are redundant. u/KapteeniJ has some more on the reasoning why the particular convention we have was chosen. It is arbitrary, you could have a perfectly valid system with different rules of precedence. But there is a logic behind it. The idea is that operations that are likely to have the greatest impact on the magnitude of the result have the highest precedence. That way the operations are grouped in such a way that partial operations can serve as an estimate of the final results. For example: 5 * 3^4 + 10 The exponentiation clearly has the greatest impact, and that's why it has the highest precedence. Even though 10 is the largest number, it has the least impact on the final value. Because of this, after doing the exponentiation, you can tell this will be a low to mid ranged 3 digit value without fulling doing the rest of the math. If the rules of precedence were reversed, this would be equivalent to: (5*3)^(4+10) In which case how much each number influences the final value is much more confused. It's not really a "this was discovered" thing, so much as it was a "this was decided" thing. The point of the order of operations is more like the rules of grammar in language. It's to make sure that people can say something and be clear that the other person will understand what they mean. So if I say 3*2+5, it's important that you know that I mean 11 instead of 21. > Surely it was not some arbritrary decision to make multiplication and division come before addition and subtraction? Actually, it *was* an arbitrary decision. The order of operations could be whatever we want them to be. All that matters is that we're consistent in applying them, so that everyone agrees that the same equation has the same solution. Actually, it is completely arbitrary. We just need to decide on one order that everybody uses, so people don't get confused. And we don't even have just one way of doing it. Some programming languages will work on a first-come first serve basis, for them: > 2+3\*4 is simply calculated from left to right, so 2+3\*4=20 Another difference is how 4 / 2 \* 3 is calculated. Some calculators interpret this as (4/2) \*3 while others interpret it as 4 / (2\*3), because we didnt agree on a correct order of operations between fractions and multiplication. So in the end, it's all just arbitrary, and we haven't even done a perfect job at it.
It's all connected together. Kind of like the internet. When your phone is turned on and connected, the tower is constantly checking in. It'll "ping" your phone like "whaddup, 999-555-5555, you still there?" And your phone is all "sup tower, yah I'm still here". When you make a call, your phone contacts the tower like "hey guys, I'm trying to make a call to 1-800-255-3700, any idea how I can get to that?". So then the tower is all "yeah hang on, let me forward to over to the central office, they'll be able to hook you up". Then the central office picks up and is like "whaddup tower?" And the tower is all "yo office, we got a phone looking to call 1-800-255-3700, any chance you could hook a brother up?". So the central office leans over to the other guy at the office and is all "yo, where's 1-800-255-3700 at?" And the other guy is like "hang on let me get out the Rolodex". And he spins through all the records and is like "aight, I found it. Looks like it's another cell phone on the Verizon network". So the central office is like "aight hang on tower, we're going to forward you over to Verizon". Then the Verizon central office picks up and is all "whaddup genericcellcarrier" and genericcellcarrier is all "sup Verizon, I got one of my phone's looking to call a 1-800-255-3700. Rolodex says it's on your network". And Verizon is all "Yeaup, that's one of ours, hang on while I forward you". Then Verizon's central office sees that one of their towers has been pinging the phone that number belongs too all day. So they hit up that tower, and that tower is all "yo, 1-800-255-3700, I got an incoming call from 999-555-5555, you want this?". Or something like that. It's simple. Whenever your phone is within range of a cell tower, the local telephone exchange knows which tower it is connected to. And the tower always keep "pinging" your phone to check if it is still there. So, the local exchange always knows where the cellphone is. When you dial in a number, the call request gets offloaded to your local phone service provider by the cell towers. There, they receive your request and check if the number you called is on their list of local numbers. If it is, they just contact the cell tower where the phone is to alert it that it's receiving a call. If not, they offload it to a bigger station where they try to find in which region that number is located. They basically have a constantly updated database of which phone numbers are active in each region. And when they do find it, they send the call request there, and the destination phone is alerted of the incoming call. And what about long-distance calls? Well, that's why area codes were invented. If an area code is detected, your local phone exchange just sends it to the corresponding area where they'll try to find the destination phone. If all fails, a message is sent back to your phone telling you that the destination number does not exist or is outside cell coverage. An interesting point to note: This process is not instantaneous. Sometimes, when you call someone on their cellphone, you might hear a few short beeps before the ringing tone begins to ring indicating that the destination phone is ringing. Those beeps are there to tell you that the local cell towers at the destination are trying to communicate to the phone to alert it of the incoming call. They're very common when a phone is on a weak coverage area with lots of interference, or when they're crossing a tower's coverage border and the nearby towers are trying to contact it.
I always assume it is advertising shorthand for "you don't want to know" For example: "Natural flavourings" sounds a lot better than ["beaver anal gland extract"]( URL_0 )
The Federal Government "borrows" money from the people by issuing Federal Bonds and printing more cash, which devalues whatever money you have in your pocket. Hypothetical situation. 2017 budget rolls around, we have a $1 trillion deficit. The Fed issues $1 trillion in bonds and prints that much in cash. If there's $100 trillion dollars in circulation, printing that $1T just devalued your dollar by 1%. This is a result of the official abolishment of the gold standard in 1971 The US government may have a fund set up to hold money and disburse it later for a specific purpose (for example, the social security fund). Now, the government could just keep that money in a bank, earning no interest. But that would be stupid because inflation would cause the fund to lose its value (the price of everything else will go up to keep up with inflation but your dollar figure in the bank stays the same, so when you draw on fund years later, you will end up buying less of the goods than you could have years before). So the government has a choice on how to invest that money. With the financial world considering US government bonds to be essentially risk-free, and the interest on those bonds can in general keep up with inflation, the people running that specific fund will invest the money in US government bonds. Now the US government owes money (through its bonds) to itself (its own fund). The government is likely avoiding other investment strategies (stocks, corporate bonds, etc) because they could be perceived as too risky. For example, imagine if the social security fund was invested in large bank stocks or even real estate in 2008 when the market tumbled. The person who made that investment decision, and his overseers (ultimately Congress/President) would face lots of political scrutiny, to put it mildly, for the losses incurred. Granted the stock market rebounded, but at the time, people would be very angry at the losses mounting in the social security fund. They would see it as the government taxing them and then just losing the money. It's too politically risky. In the end, the government doesn't "raid" the social security fund. The fund managers are making a choice to buy government bonds.
The reason for anti trust laws is to make sure companies will compete against each other to make the best products at the lowest cost. If T-mobile and AT & T would merge they would become so big that nobody could be able to compete against them. In a lot of markets these two companies are the only available option but if they were to merge they could increase the price and reduce the quality of the service without fear that people would switch. And if they were to be challenged on some areas they would have the resources to start a price war and drop the prices bellow the competitors prices. The competitor can then lower his prices and lose money on every sale until he goes bankrupt or he can keep his prices and lose his customers and then go bankrupt. That's not the case at all... there are many other brands of tools. First off, Craftsman is actually a Sears store brand only sold at Sears. And Home Depot sells 17 brands of claw hammers, 30+ brands of tape measures from brands like Milwaukee, Husky, HDX (store brand), Ryobi, Stanley, DeWalt, etc. Secondly, the barrier of entry to make a hammer, wrench set, tape measure, etc. is minimal. All you need to do is design a product and manufacture it and you're ready to enter the market. Cell providers rely on heavy regulated access to wireless spectrum, heavily regulated cell tower placement ,and expensive cell tower build-out to have a usable network. It's MUCH harder to enter such a market, so the existing companies consolidating mean there will not be new entries and competition will fall. If tool prices rise because there are fewer manufacturers, it'd be easy enough for some lower cost tool maker to break into the market.
Because you're a good boy, yes you are! who's a good boy? The same way you can't tickle yourself. Your body knows that you're going to feel exactly that sensation at exactly that position. When you get pleasurable, physical contact from other people, your body releases hormones like oxytocin and other chemicals that make you feel good. Your body doesn't react the same way when you 'scratch your own itch' Well in the case of monkeys, scientists have discovered that social grooming, i.e. cleaning each other's fur for bugs etc, causes the brain of the money being groomed to release "endorphins" which are chemicals that make you feel relaxed and happy. As animals we're not that biologically different from monkeys, so it's possible we might have the same trait as a leftover from our ancient ancestors. Massage therapist here. One reason is because of your passive experience. It's being done *for* you, also: an element of surprise. Of course the premise is that you receive it the way you like it - area wise, pressure wise, scratch/rub ratio wise, speed wise, hair pulling or not etc. You're body knows and can anticipate when you are about to do it. It cannot anticipate (even if you know or see someone is going to do it) when someone else does it.
They walked. You can ask from Africa into India, Asia and Europe. Back then there was a land bridge between Europe and North America at the Bering Straits. They walked over that and walked south. More interesting in the migration of humans to Australia 40K years ago. Also the migration from the southern China coast of the Polynesian people. Both of those involved crossing water. What makes you think there wasn't any boats BTW?
You could have [Exploding Head Syndrome]( URL_0 )(EHS), which is the coolest syndrome that I have ever heard of. EHS is a benign condition in which a person hears loud imagined noises (such as a bomb exploding, a gunshot, or a cymbal crash) or experiences an explosive feeling when falling asleep or waking up. These noises have a sudden onset, are typically brief in duration, and are often jarring for the sufferer. EHS is classified as a parasomnia and a sleep-related dissociative disorder by the 2005 International Classification of Sleep Disorders, and is an unusual type of auditory hallucination in that it occurs in people who are not fully awake. Unfortunately, neither the cause nor the mechanism of exploding head syndrome is known. I heard about this in my psych course, the basic principle that psychologists believe for this phenomenon is that when you're body is ready to relax, and has a lower inherent ability to guard itself, it heightens the priority your instinctual brain holds to the noise around you to help keep you safe and aware of your surroundings. Your eyes close and your ears open. It's all situational, and is the same reason things seem louder in generally-quiet situations or when you're in tense or frightening circumstances.
His net worth is largely tied to his investment holdings with Microsoft, although he more than likely has investments elsewhere. As the share price of Microsoft fluctuates daily on the market, his net worth fluctuates with it. If Microsoft has a particularly bad quarter, he publicly lost a lot of money.
(Edit: I clarified my answer after many pointed out that it is misleading to say that the placebo effect *proves* wishful cures. Please also see other answers.) There are a ton of reasons why a placebo might work: * there is a mind-body connection and psychosomatic therapies are valid * people pretend or believe themselves to be sick when they are not * people misreport disease symptoms and therapy effects * diseases can cure themselves given time * diet and environment cure diseases * statistical data and double-blind tests are the only valid medical evidence and drug development method New-age and alternative medicine play up the possibility of mind-body connection and that positive thinking, prayer, energy etc. cure diseases. This approach is unprovable and not scientific. In addition to the various circumstantial and accidental factors, there is the pragmatic statistical approach that indirectly takes all factors and hypothesis into consideration. Thus, modern medicine focuses on validating (rather than explaining) drugs and therapies via placebo-controlled double-blind clinical trials. It has less to do with our minds being able to cure our ills, and more to do with changing our perception. Imagine a light is blinking steadily one second on, one second off. Now imagine that you are told every 3rd blink is slightly longer than the rest. You might then perceive this as so even though the light is blinking at a steady rate. What matters is that your perception of the event is altered. It is very difficult for us to make purely objective observations of things without measuring devices like a watch or instruments to measure things we want to observe. Since we don't have instruments like this that tell you how much pain you are in, or how healthy you are, or how stressed you are, it is much more subjective to your perception and other factors can easily influence your experience. Your body actually has 3 brains so to speak. There is your brain, your involuntary nervous system, and the enteric nervous system in your gut. Each has nerve communication with the other, but also each can operate independent of the others. So for instance if you feel threatened, you can force yourself to be calm, but you can't force your body not to produce adrenaline and prep you for fight or flight. That is an involuntary reaction you are powerless to control. However you can practice breathing techniques to try to control your heart rate which can affect body temperature and relaxation. That is a far cry from the mind healing wounds or telling your liver to metabolize alcohol faster etc. No, that's a hypothesis you are making based on the observation of the placebo effect. The placebo effect only proves that our expectations or beliefs can impact our body in some way or another. Transforming this into your hypothesis requires additional assumptions such as what is power and what means being able to utilize, and proving this hypothesis would require additional testing which I'm not aware of being done before. One thing people forget about a placebo group in a medical trial is that, even though they aren't getting a real drug, they are getting regular attention of medical professionals who are keeping a close eye on their condition than they would otherwise. Add to that, placebos primarily help with subjective symptoms; things like stress and self reported pain. There is a lot of misconceptions about the placebo effect. The placebo effect is only refers to any effect outside of the intended ones and is mostly a tool to analyze data during scientific research. This could include this mystical mind over body effect but it is mostly a mix of biases, from the patient and the scientist and external effects. For example, if I would conduct a research about a new pill for pain reduction and some of my patients take aspirin but don't report it, it will show up in my data set as positive even in my control group. It serves as a way to remove these factors if we assume they will effect all groups the same way. An example of researcher bias could be two doctors having slightly different idea of, let say, a cured tumor. Two different research on the same treatment will show different results but factoring the placebo effect with a control group should show the same results. This is also why, if you look at the control group of similar researches on the same treatment you will often see different effect, because they do not have the same way of looking at data. Then there is the problem of reported effect vs real effect. A patient can report positive effect of a placebo because, while they do not experience any physiological effect, they feel they must report it as working because, "hey this must work right?". You will thus see very strange results if you compare reported data of let say, asthma attacks with a bio metric measurement, here, lung strength. The placebo affect is a great tool of analysis because most medical experiments is done on humans by humans in an open environment and we need a way factor for all the implicit biases and uncontrollable factor that are not cause by what we are observing but it is not a therapeutic method and was never meant to be. There might be an influence of the body in healing, but we should not jump at this conclusion before considering all the others, more plausible influences. ELI(Actually)5: Let's use our imaginations and pretend that you and your best friend are playing outside on a sunny day, and you both fall down and get an owie (scientifically referred to as a boo-boo) in the exact same way. Your mommy is outside watering the lawn and she sees you when you start to cry. She comes over and kisses your boo-boo. Meanwhile your friend's mommy is in her house drinking Rosé and thinking about what a mistake it was to get married so young, so your best friend's has to settle for his weird aunt Placebo (you know she's weird because her name is Placebo and she has a weird mole on her face) kissing his boo-boo. Now you obviously feel better because mommy kisses are a very effective scientifically proven cure for boo-boos. But everyone knows weird aunt kisses don't actually do a thing to help fix a boo-boo, and your friend has also stopped crying! So what happened? Why does Aunt Placebo have such a noticeable effect? - Maybe both of your boo-boos would have felt better anyway after a few minutes. - Maybe the act of kissing the boo-boo, even from a weird aunt, somehow distracts your friend and makes him think his boo-boo is better even if the underlying boo-boo is still there. - Maybe your friend stops crying because his aunt is a grown-up and he knows that grown-ups like to think that they helped (the word "Placebo" comes from a Latin word that means "I shall please"). - Maybe in the process of your friend's aunt kissing his boo-boo, he (accidentally or on purpose) rubbed some dirt on it (another scientifically proven pain reliever almost as good as mommy kisses) and you didn't notice. - Maybe your friend's brain has an (as-yet unidentified by science) secret magic store of mommy kisses that it releases after getting a kiss from someone other than his mommy. - Maybe more than one of these could be happening at the same time! If you had to put these possibilities in order from the highest to lowest chance of being right, where would you put the magic brain one? Is it more likely that the brain has a secret magic power that science hasn't found yet? Or that something else caused your friend's boo-boo to feel better? Probably the "something else" right? It turns out that it's really hard to study boo-boo cures while getting rid of the things that are higher on the list, so there is a very good chance that something else besides the magic secret store of mommy kisses is going on. We should probably just assume that the Aunt Placebo effect is from one or more of those, before we jump to the conclusion that Aunt Placebo gives your brain magic powers. Now let's get a band-aid on that boo-boo and get you back outside, eh sport? It makes you feel better when there isn't an actual pathophysical process and the symptoms might resolve by itself anyway. Same reason why giving placebo as a treatment for Meningitis or cancer is highly unethical. The brain is amazing, it not only named itself, but you could say that psychology is the brain trying to figure itself out. No, it proves we don't really don't have the capacity to tell pain from no pain when we're supposed to feel no pain... No, it proves that you "participate" in your experience of things like the severity of pain. If you're convinced you're being treated, you also convince yourself that it doesn't hurt as bad. You actually just don't feel it as much.
We don't know. We don't even know under which circumstances it happens. All in all, the [Mpemba effect]( URL_0 ) is a very hazy subject. Possible explanations for the [Mpemba effect]( URL_0 ) include: * Evaporation: The evaporation of the warmer water reduces the mass of the water to be frozen. Evaporation is endothermic, meaning that the water mass is cooled by vapor carrying away the heat, but this alone probably does not account for the entirety of the effect. * Convection: Accelerating heat transfers. Reduction of water density below 4 °C (39 °F) tends to suppress the convection currents that cool the lower part of the liquid mass; the lower density of hot water would reduce this effect, perhaps sustaining the more rapid initial cooling. Higher convection in the warmer water may also spread ice crystals around faster. * Frost: Has insulating effects. The lower temperature water will tend to freeze from the top, reducing further heat loss by radiation and air convection, while the warmer water will tend to freeze from the bottom and sides because of water convection. This is disputed as there are experiments that account for this factor. * Solutes: The effects of calcium carbonate, magnesium carbonate among others. * Thermal conductivity: The container of hotter liquid may melt through a layer of frost that is acting as an insulator under the container (frost is an insulator, as mentioned above), allowing the container to come into direct contact with a much colder lower layer that the frost formed on (ice, refrigeration coils, etc.) The container now rests on a much colder surface (or one better at removing heat, such as refrigeration coils) than the originally colder water, and so cools far faster from this point on. * Dissolved gases: Cold water can contain more dissolved gases than hot water, which may somehow change the properties of the water with respect to convection currents, a proposition that has some experimental support but no theoretical explanation.
A factor no one else has mentioned yet is women entered the workforce. We essentially doubled the amount of available workers without doubling the amount of available jobs. When you have a lot more of something, in this case labor, the price decreases. It became an employer's market, no different than when a lot of houses are available it's a buyer's market and when there aren't it's a seller's market. A job is after all nothing more than you selling your labor for a price, your wage. A lot more of the product became available when the entire other half of our population started working. Buyers, the employers, had more to choose from and thus could afford to pay a lower price for the product since more people were looking to sell than there were people looking to buy. Markets are markets, whether it's a job market, housing market, or rare Magic the Gathering card market. More product+fewer buyers= lower prices. Less product+more buyers= higher prices. Jobs are currently in the "more product/fewer buyers" phase and will remain as such until either more jobs are available or there's fewer workers. Essentially born into different economies. Baby boomers were born into one of the healthiest economies arguably ever recorded in history, while millennials have come of age in a time of recession and slow recovery.
The software maker typically uses a computer algorithm to generate their keys. The key it generates will follow a certain pattern that the maker knows and when you install the software and activate it using the key it checks to see if it matches that pattern (I'm ignoring online activation methods). The software doesn't have a list of valid keys since storing that information would take up a lot of space. So how do the pirated key generators work? 1. They either get their hands on a large number of legitimate keys and try and look for the pattern used to make them. Once they figure that out they can just make new ones the same way the software maker does. 2. They have analyzed the software to try and find clues to the pattern by how it checks the key that is entered. 3. They just got a hold of a number of keys legitimate keys that their keys generator just picks one at random to display. I. This case they aren't really generating new keys just giving out legitimate keys that they got a hold of. Now a days most software has some sort of online activation component that checks the key you entered with a database somewhere to see if it has in fact been issued by the software maker and if it has already been used or not. This is why many programs now also need to be 'cracked' too where the crackers try and replace the key checking code with something that will accept non-legitimate keys or to block the online check and just return a fake response from the server's saying the key is good.
Like /u/donsterkay said, such companies usually make their money through advertising. It's worth noting, though, that not all of them do shady stuff like cramming ads on all your pages. As is usually the rule on the internet, for every 100 online services there are 99 scumbags and 1 honest fellow. Those two you listed as examples look legit, and although I haven't used them, I didn't find any scam accusations on Google. The most likely answer to your question is that these companies have different tiers of service; i.e. the free tier offers basic levels of bandwidth and tools that would be enough for most people (think portfolio website or shopify online store), and the paid tier has extra stuff targeted at larger clients (like an online business). As long as there are enough paid clients to keep the ship afloat, the company can easily offer legit free hosting. Edit: A user below mentioned that 000webhost have had big security issues in the past, Google seems to confirm that. I asked a colleague of mine about OneSite and he said they're solid. A lot of the free hosting sites do indeed let you have a "free" wesite. They make their money by cramming your pages full of ad's. Some limit your size or throughput some charge after as certain throughput is reached (hey you get that many hits you might be willing to pay or there might be a ad that will support you). It is worth noting that most free host's IP addresses get blacklisted because scammers use them so someone behind a corporate firewall may not be able to access your site. You've gotten some good answers already, so I just wanted to add hard drives [are getting ridiculously cheap]( URL_0 ). So, you know, if you run a server farm or whatever, you have some initial cost, sure, but getting your storage online isn't going to be very capital-intensive. Therefore, webspace providers and companies like dropbox can easily afford to hand out a couple gigabyte of storage - it doesn't cost them anything and might even turn you into a paying customer. That's a win. Not all company's but some will make you have a weird domain name. For example URL_0 will give you a free site but your domain will be whateveryounameit. URL_0 if you want to change you'll have to outright buy the domain you want on top of what ever tier of service you want. Usually the free option is very limited. It will likely have low bandwidth, low storage space and some back end features like PHP or SQL will not be available. Paying will get you more power and a wider variety of available features. I used one company for a lot of free hosting for various projects in my college days, but when I had a website that had a login and needed to be able to email users I had to upgrade to a paid service, for example. All of them have paid services too. They give you the free service but a lot of stuff is limited on free plans. Number of databases, ftp accounts, traffic, CPU and RAM, SSH, backups, etc. When your site grows and you need more of those stuff you will have to pay them. Also some of them put ads in your website. Also because of the limited nature of free hosts I don't suppose they cost them much. And they aren't dedicated servers, they are virtual servers which means lots of free websites can reside in one physical server.
When you are anxious, you tend to breathe *too much* (hyperventilate). This changes your body's preferred oxygen levels, which has the unfortunate effect of making you feel out of breath. You also tend to try to regulate your breathing on your own because you believe that you aren't getting enough oxygen because hyperventilation makes you feel out of breath, which only (a) messes up your breathing even more, and (b) makes you focus on breathing and all of your thoughts around having a hard time getting oxygen. Finally, anxiety causes muscle tightness and you have muscles all over your chest and abdomen, so it can feel harder to take a full breath. However, if your lungs hurt all the time, it might be a good idea to talk to a doctor :) It's your animal instinct. If your body feels its under threat, it will start hoarding resources before "the others" take it. That's why you are so thirsty right after being told you have limited water, and the first thing you do in a small space with limited air is start breathing extra. Because if you take it all now and hoard it, you'll live longer, and "the others" can't take it back from you. It can be irrational, because it ignores social agreements that everyone conserve so we all live, but it's how we're wired. You can override this mindset with training and/or therapy. Since you said you do deep breathing exercises, I assume you have the skills on good days. The next step in your training is to learn to override your instincts on the bad days and use the skills as you were trained.
Microwaves are electromagnetic radiation with fairly large wavelength. If you take away the spinning mechanism and put in something like a block of cheese, you'll pretty reliably be able to see that the heat will most be applied in certain sections. If you measure the distance between those sections, you'll be able to tell the wavelength of the microwaves. What'll happen if you leave the door open? Microwaves will leak out. What does this do to you? Well it affects the water in your system which definitely can't be good for you, but it isn't a HUGE deal. It'll also really fuck with the wifi at your house so long as the microwaves are leaking out
As you know, for mammals in preparation for pregnancy, the womb is covered with a layer of lining. In most mammals, if pregnancy does not happen, this lining is absorbed completely (and thus, most mammals don't have periods). However in humans, while a good portion of it is absorbed, some also gets shed leading to a period. The difference most likely comes down to pregnancy / the behaviour of our embryos. Human embryos are unusually aggressive. In most mammals, the embryo barely attaches to the wall of the uterus / rest against it. In humans however, the embryo actually implants and burrows very deeply into the wall of the uterus, wanting to get as many nutrients as possible. It is thought that humans therefore evolved a thicker lining of the uterus to protect against this behaviour. It's part of the balancing act between mother and unborn child, trying to strike the right balance where the embryo gets enough nutrients to grow, but the woman also can continue to thrive. As a side-effect of having that thicker lining though, it becomes harder for us to completely break it down and reabsorb it. And as such, humans evolved the behaviour to actually shed that which cannot be reabsorbed. Another thing that might play a role is the fact that among the animals that do menstruate (humans and other primates, certain species of bats, elephant shrews) at least for humans and several other primate species, we know that pregnancy often ends in early miscarriages. A huge number of pregnancies actually end before the woman even realises she is pregnant because there is something wrong with the embryo. Now the thought is that the thicker lining of the uterus might also play a role in helping the body get rid of embryos that are incompatible with life. After all, in humans and primate especially, we have very few children and our children have both a long gestation period as well as a long period of parental care. It is in the best interest to birth children that are as healthy as possible. There are a few hypotheses about why humans do this more so than any other menstruating mammal. It could be to help flush out any miscarriages that may otherwise get stuck inside the uterus (humans appear to have a very high miscarriage rate compared to other animals due to chromosomal abnormalities), or the result of an arms race between the embryo wanting to burrow into the mother's blood vessels to get more nutrients and her body wanting to keep a distance between the two in case something goes wrong with the pregnancy. The thick uterine lining, in that case, would be a protective barrier between the mother and the embryo. [More info]( URL_0 ), though this source is not very layman friendly
It's sales and adoption have been terrible. The original Wii was released in late 2006. By 2010, it had 70 million worldwide sales of the console. Source - URL_0 In comparison, the Wii U has been out since 2012, and in the same time period only has 14 million units shipped. Compare that with its competition like the Xbox One or PS4 and it is getting murdered in sales and has an extremely low game adoption (rate at which consumers buy multiple games). Edit: fixed date The Switch is **also** a replacement for the 3DS, which is early 2011. Nintendo has aligned their portable and console development teams, they said part of their problem previously is they were starting to do twice the work for not twice the sales. For example, Smash Bros and Super Mario Maker are both on 3DS and Wii U, and building those respective versions took quite a bit of time and effort. They'd also have issues like the Wii U not being interesting to consumers because the games people were interested in were on the 3DS. (ie Pokemon). Now all of Nintendo's franchises will be on one platform, and 3rd-parties no longer have to pick and choose which of the 2 Ninty boxes to target, which is important in an increasingly competitive market with more systems. **edit**: let me clarify, it's a down-the-road replacement. The 3DS is not dropping off the map, I'm aware of what Nintendo has said regarding future support of the 3DS.
There are, right now, really only three power blocks capable of challenging the United States in global affairs: Russia, China, and the European Union. Others may emerge in the near or medium-term future, such as India or Brazil, but they're not quite there yet. Of the three, the European Union is likely to remain a stalwart ally in the near term, given our economic connections, cultural affinity, and generally seeing eye to eye on ideological and moral goals. China often bumps heads with the U.S., particularly in regard to regional control of the South China Sea and the Southeast Asian commercial sphere, but our interconnected economies generally means the benefits of partnership outweigh antagonism. Russia is different. Russia is not a major trading partner of the United States. Russia also does not generally respect or believe in liberal democratic governance and individual rights, which the West considers preconditions for legitimate government. Russia also has expansionary goals and wants to assert domination over former Soviet countries, in direct contravention of our European allies' desire to spread Western democracy eastward. All this is to say that Russia is not a "sudden" threat. They have remained a potential threat since the Cold War, only the threat was muted for about a decade or so after the fall of the Soviet Union, when their domestic political turmoil and lack of a modern market economy left them largely unable to project influence abroad. Also, note that while the U.S. and Russia have agreed to mutually reduce nuclear weapons stockpiles, we have *far* more than either of us need to be an existential threat to the other, and maintaining current arms costs money that neither country really wanted to spend. In the last half-decade or so, however, Russia has started to regain its footing, and Putin has felt emboldened to begin reassertion influence outside his borders. Russia has become more brazen about murdering dissidents abroad, and invading its neighbors (with the 2008 invasion of Georgia, and the invasion of the Ukraine in 2014). Putin's government has also been spending the years perfecting and adapting its soft-power abilities in the modern era, becoming masters at propaganda and cyberespionage. It's this reassertion of power in the 2010s that has brought Russia back to the top of the threat board, with the turning point being their launching operations, beginning last year, to target the core functioning of the United States government. This is not something powerful nations do to each other unless they are ready to enter a new phase of outright cold warfare. The U.S. and Russia, of course, have never stopped keeping tabs on each other, but to directly attempt to influence the election, to target one of the country's two major parties -- and the party of the sitting president -- with open cyberespionage, is a little like sinking the *Lusitania*. The U.S. public might not want to be the world police, but we are the leaders of the current global order, and as a whole this country generally benefits from having an open global market to purchase our goods and services. When you're on top of the world, the last thing you want is that world disrupted, so it's in our interest to maintain the status quo. Russia wants to upend it. No, both the United States and Russia still have thousands of active nuclear tipped missiles in silos ready to be fired. The Cold War with the Soviet Union may be over, but a great many of the same people who were former Soviet officials are now part of the Russian government. Putin himself spent a lifetime as a KGB officer. They aren't so much of a threat again as they never actually stopped being one for any real length of time. After the collapse of the USSR the various satellite republics fell away and became their own nations. The reborn Russia went through a period of upheaval where various groups were vying for power, and now it's settled on Putin and his cabal. One of Putin's goals is to essentially retake the territory once possessed by the USSR; something those nations aren't too keen on. The US might not want to be the "world police" but Russia can project a fair amount of power into the same places we try to as well. They can set themselves at odds with us and make our own national interests overseas much more difficult. And there is the additional aspect that the United States has numerous formal agreements with European nations to come to their aid if attacked. NATO itself is one such pact. The Budapest Memorandum is another such agreement, which Ukraine sees as already having been violated and the United States having reneged on our deal. Basically we came up with a pact in 1994 that said Ukraine would give up their nuclear arms in exchange for the US protecting them. They gave up their nukes, Russia invaded, we didn't protect them. This is a major blow to the political standing and clout of the US and makes us seem like we won't or can't honor our agreements. That makes other nations that we have such agreements with *very* nervous. Russia and the US still do not see eye-to-eye on a lot of political issues. America is also worried that Russia is corrupt enough to undertake political or military action for something that'd turn a profit. (Such as arming some group in the middle east so ultimately they can get in there for oil rights). And Russia, of course, is worried America would do the exact same. This has been the case for quite some time, it's just become a news highlight following accusations of Russian hacking during the election. Of course, America and Russia are **constantly** trying to snoop on each other's business, so even that's not new. > I thought the Cold War was over and we have both disarmed? There have been significant strides, but the US and Russia still have immense numbers of nuclear weapons. > most Americans didn't want to police the world Most people (including most Americans) don't realize that someone needs to police the world if they want global trade and global shipping to continue, entirely because everyone else is too weak to do it (although quite honestly I'd be more willing to forgive Russia for being weak, given that their economy is still not doing well and they haven't been able to maintain their navy). > Why are they all of a sudden a threat again? Because they've invaded two countries that were pivoting towards NATO and the West; Georgia, and now Ukraine. In addition, the US and Russia antagonized each other more than a little bit concerning the Syrian Civil War. Russia has been doing everything in its power to undermine Western Democracies. Besides their meddling in the American election, they have been launching a disinformation campaign and supporting groups that will weaken Russia's enemies and expand Russia's boundaries. They have been supporting and funding far-right eurosceptic parties in the EU (such as LePen's National Front and UKIP) to disunite Europe. Their government is explicitly behind a lot of these fake news stories that are picked up by the alt-right for propaganda purposes. They recently tried staging a coup in Montenegro to replace a pro-Western PM who was trying to join NATO with a Russian aligned nationalist. Putin's expansionism is a direct threat to the US and it's allies. As far as disarming, we have taken some steps to reducing the nuclear arsenal, but both countries still have enough nukes to destroy the world many times over. Beyond annexing Crimea, Russia has been supporting the secession of South Ossetia and Abkhazia in Georgia, and may seek to annex these provinces as well. I don't want America to police the world. I would rather it be done by international representative systems such as the UN. But I would much rather it be done by the US than by Russia. They are not suddenly a threat. It has been continuous. Only in the past few years, however, have they been making such overt power grabs and acting so recklessly as to potentially instigate a war against the west. > I thought the Cold War was over and we have both disarmed? Not at all. We *reduced* arms but still have enough to end all human life. Russia could nuke the US to ash. > I know Russia annexed Crimea, but I thought most Americans didn't want to police the world? The US needs to protect overseas interests which includes security of NATO countries. Ukraine isn't part of NATO so they didn't get protection, but the US needs to take a stand against Russia going into empire building again. > Why are they all of a sudden a threat again? They have always been a threat, they are just pushing more overtly these days.
Because you can not "not move". Your muscles always need to work to keep the position you need your hand to stay at. So the more you try to keep your hand steady, the harder you try to compensate for the movement you see, but are not aware of. So you are constantly overcompensating. Try an experiment - get a full cup of water and try to walk with it to the next room. First, just take it and go, do not think about the cup (just like you normally do). Then, take it back, but this time, try as hard as you can to keep the water level "mirror-like". Unless you're a waiter or have a lot of experience, you'll spill more if you concentrate on not spilling. Your muscles are not functioning as a single unit which you lock in place. The muscle is made up of individual muscle fibers which do not contract in synchrony. There are also complicated feedback mechanisms going back between your muscles and your brain which steadies your hand causing these fibers to contract and relax etc.
Nobody likes Norton because it is a resource hog that slows your computer down. It doesn't effectivly do it's job. Norton's CEO even admits that it only gets 40% of viruses at best. So why would people pay outrageous for a program that slows down their computer, and only does less than half the job. Stick with Microsoft Essentials; it is free and makes sense that Microsoft would know the in's and out's of their own code better than some 3rd party like norton. Norton is a complete waste of money. A good antivirus program is like having an amazing immune system. A bad antivirus program is like having severe, debilitating allergies. Back in the day Norton was the only game in town. Time were much simpler and it was a product that did one job and did it well. It's been a bloated POS for 20 years. It spreads it's tentacles into every nook and cranny of your system. I'm still salty about having to remove it piece-by-piece one time in 1999. Their endpoint AV, which is installed on company computers and controlled by the sysadmin, is pretty good. Very little resource usage and it seems to catch most things. Can't speak to how easy it is to use from the admin perspective but as a user I really didn't notice it was there. A final note; *Antivirus software is your last line of defense.* If you're worried about security there are many layers that go on top of the AV. Edge firewalls, OS firewalls, email filtering, ad blocking, DNS filtering, etc. If you're counting on *any* AV to protect you you're doing it wrong. A final, final note: [Norton's DNS service]( URL_0 ) is free for home users and seems pretty good at blocking malicious sites. Pick a protection level and plug those DNS addresses into your router. That way when your browser sends a request to resolve URL_1 Norton's name servers send back a "Nope, this site ain't safe." There are a multitude of reasons that Norton is infamous, the most common of which is its malware style behavior when attempting to get you to resubscribe. It was basically windows 10. The last thing you want in an anti-malware program is for it to pester the shit out of you like malware itself does. To answer your second question without any intention of endorsement, malware-bytes is, in my opinion, the most effective available free anti-malware software. Like most consumer products, you get what you pay for. From earlier this year: [Google Found Disastrous Symantec and Norton Vulnerabilities That Are ‘As Bad As It Gets’]( URL_0 ) That is, installing Norton/Symantec has been **actively making users horribly less secure**. The one thing that article didn't mention was exactly how many years it's been doing this. > Given it's so notoriously bad for some reason, how come sales reps at electronics stores push it so hard? Norton is a business that cares about money above all else. Your security is near the bottom of their list. Prepackaging and partnering is a pretty central part of their business ("first one's free" (or really cheap) is their favorite thing). So they have a business deal with Best Buy to push Norton installs. That's all. I'd suggest MalwareBytes over Norton. It's free and reliable. Not only that, but there's a mobile app for your phone (at least for Samsungs) that does more than "clean your phone." It acts like a virus. Sales reps are paid on commission, they usually get very little commission on the actual computer, they make tons of commission on anti virus and other accessories. People are stupid and stupid people just keep using stuff that works badly. Or making other people use it. The one that works very well is Frisk software F-Protect. It is much better at finding everything and includes an Artificial Intelligence engine for stopping things acting like a virus even with no positive ID.
Because the light coming off of your face is hitting the curved edge of the spoon and then reflecting off perpendicular to the surface. This makes it so the light that hits the top (from the top part of your head) is reflected downwards and the light that hits the bottom (from your chin) is reflected up. This creates an image on your eye that is upside down to what you'd expect. Diagram: URL_0 Credit: /u/TheWindeyMan
A lot of the tiredness comes from your posture. When we sit in front of a screen (or lay down in the same posture for a long time), our muscles strain and tense up. There needs to be movement in our muscles for proper blood flow. The strain in muscles is why we feel tired. It's mostly because you're not moving, not drinking water, and you're doing a lot of shallow task switching. Not moving lowers your energy level, and the task switching (versus getting immersed in a conversation or a project) makes your mind work hard with no specific sense of accomplishment, sort of like driving in traffic. Or listening to a lecture where the teacher is bouncing back and forth from topic to topic and you're struggling to keep up. Same situation: no physical movement to keep the blood flowing, and lots of cognitive effort with no reward.
The key difference: With a credit card, the *card issuer* must fight to get *its* money back. With a debit card, *you* must fight to get *your* money back. If you report your card lost or stolen before any fraudulent transactions occur, your liability is zero. Many credit cards promise zero liability for all fraudulent transactions. ... The real difference between a debit card and a credit card when it comes to fraud is in how you get your money back. Having zero liability is safer than having liability, so credit is safer. A debit card is connected directly to your bank account. All the money on that card is money you already own. When you swipe a debit card, you're taking money directly out of your own bank account, immediately. So if a debit card is stolen, that person has access to all the money in your bank. A credit card is an I.O.U. to your bank. When you swipe a credit card, you're not paying any money at all; your bank is paying for whatever you're buying. Then at the end of the month, your bank will send you a bill for all the money it paid for when you swiped that card, and you pay it all at once out of your own bank account. If a credit card is stolen, that person has access to your bank's money, not yours. The big difference here is, if someone tries to spend a lot of money with the card, and your bank notices it and stops the card from being used, it's easier for them to say "you don't have to pay us back for that time someone else used your credit card" and remove the item from your bill, than it is for them to sort out which of the money in your bank account was spent by you, and which was spent by someone else. A couple reasons, that boil down to: debit cards are direct access to your money. Credit cards earn money from you (or, more money) so the companies are more likely to offer competitive offers such as charge-back insurance, which is basically when you tell Visa or MasterCard "Hey, I didn't authorize Joe the mechanic to charge me that much, he was only supposed to do an oil change and report back but he went ahead and did $1300 of work and billed it to me" and Visa goes "I see, you've been a loyal customer, we believe you" and unless Hal really thinks he has a case, it goes away. Another way it protects you is if, for some reason, someone has your card(s) and your PIN(s), the credit card has a delay and limit. If you check your online data every week or so, you'd see suspicious activity before it was deducted from your "real money" in the bank. But if the thief had your debit card, he might just empty your account and when you went to use your money, you'd find you had no money and it might be days or weeks before the bank 1) opens up and 2) does something about it. With the credit card, first you could have the charges reversed/canceled, and if for some reason that failed you could sever the relationship between your bank and the credit card company before the charges went through and deal with it through court. If you're not on the ball and only check your shit every few months, you'll be hosed no matter what.
It's very similar to a Brita water filter (they use charcoal to absorb unpleasant smelling/tasting chemicals). Activated charcoal has enormous surface area for its weight, and it's mostly made up of carbon atoms. Carbon adsorbs many materials quite well, but especially other carbon chemicals. Since most of the unpleasant chemicals found in alcohol are carbon based chemicals, charcoal works very well as a filter for distilled alcoholic beverages. It's popular among penny pinchers to get a similar effect by running cheap vodka through a Brita filter.
Your retina has photoreceptors with specialized pigments which get modified by the inciding light. They change in conformation and affect nearby receptors, closing them and stopping a previously active influx of Na+ and Ca2+. Without the entrance of these positive ions, the cell membrane undergoes hyperpolarization (becomes more negative). This change in electrical potential is propagated until it reaches the end of the photoreceptor, upon which neurotransmitter vesicles sit. These neurotransmitters are usually released into the synapse on depolarization (the cell becoming positive), so in this case they will be *less* released. Nevertheless, the postsynaptic cell will detect this *alteration in neurotransmission* and will relay the signal to yet another cell, the ganglion cells. These ganglion cells take the signal to the lateral geniculate nucleus in your pons (part of your brain) which has another neuron that takes the signal to your visual cortex. There is more to it than that. For example, when one photoreceptor receives light, it hyperpolarizes, but it sends signals to the photoreceptors around it so they will do the opposite and depolarize. The neurons in the visual system aren't connected only vertically, but also horizontally, and these patterns are helpful for discrimination of contrast, geometric forms, and movement. Your nervous cells use several ion pumps to keep the electrical resistance greater on the outside of the cell membrane than on the inside. This increases the propagation of the current through the cell with minimal loss. Bigger nerves in your central nervous system also have myelin sheaths, which are layers of fat that make it even more likely that the currents will flow thorugh the inside. Note that not all cells in your retina are sensitive to a single photon, only those in the fovea, the place of highest visual acuity in the eye.
They get stretched out, and can separate, causing diastasis recti. Not everyone experiences this condition, and many times the muscles just go back to normal. Your ligaments and joints get loose as well, all caused by certain pregnancy hormones that enable a women's hips to shift during birth. All of this usually goes back to normal in the months after birth. Binding your belly after birth can help your muscles come back together as well, at least anecdotally. Your skin will almost always stay a little looser than before. FYI, there are many exercises you can do to strengthen your ab muscles after birth (wait a couple months minimum though, to heal) and these are usually not your typical "ab strengthening" exercises/movements. Crunches will not help, and can often make diastasis recti worse. A quick google search will help you find something. Picture your abdominal muscles running down either side of your belly button. Now see them, slowly over months, be pushed further apart. They stretch, flatten and separate, allowing your belly to grow forward. Pregnancy hormones allow a woman's muscles to soften and relax more; which is why you can do some serious damage lifting heavy things or playing sports (both things I did during my pregs). I had big babies so ended up post-preg with 6 inches of separation and had to do physio immediately after birth, while everything was still soft. Perfectly fine now, everything has snapped back into place, but I have a friend who did not do the physio who now has a permanent pot belly due to her abs being out of place. They are stretched and thus can't provide the support they could before. Diastasis recti can happen, which means the rectus abdominus muscle (6 pack muscle) spreads apart, the left side pulled from the right. They can still use the abdominals they just won't be nearly as effective and are harder to strengthen. edited thanks to a comment regarding my word choice I've cared for several pregnant women whom I'd put in the "extremely fit" category. The ones who maintain core fitness throughout pregnancy often keep their 'six packs' up to the birth. Diastasis (separation or laxity of the rectus abdominal muscles) is not inevitable. For those mamas who have cesareans, some surgeons suture the muscle layer back together and others don't, it's a personal preference. Wrapping the abdomen postpartum is a very old indigenous tradition that serves the purpose of encouraging muscle healing and preventing diastasis too. Source: I'm a nurse midwife In addition to what others have said which is spot on, the size of the baby matters and the number of pregnancies matter. Someone who has a 6 pound baby generally will have a different experience than one who has a 10 pounder. You get stretched out. The delivery matters. Those abdominal muscles control everything in your core so your gait can get messed up. Pelvis and hips as well. ***Shout out to all the ladies in the building!!!*** Seriously. Reading this was very insightful as to the trauma a female body goes through. Here's an illustration of what could happen. The rectus abdominus (six pack muscle) is actually divided symmetrically in half. The linea alba is the white tendon down middle and it can tear. URL_0 My nurse and Physio said my abs separated 6cm to accommodate my son during pregnancy. I'm quite little and my son's the biggest baby we've ever had on my side of the family. I ran and went to the gym regularly during my pregnancy. My abs are still very weak now (16months later) but the connective tissue healed up enough after a few weeks that the gap was only a cm or two. I should mention that I did a half marathon possibly a few weeks pregnant. This is only one anecdote though I had great abs and a really strong core prior to getting pregnant with my only child 10+ years ago. I had pre-eclampsia, gained 70lbs of mostly water weight and was miserable - thought for sure my body was a goner. He was a nine pounder, had to have an emergency c-section because of his giant melon, but when the doc was sewing my guts back up, she commented aghast, "geez, your belly's nearly flat again". I had no issues with the muscles separating (actually, never knew it happened until I read the above comments), and I started working out when my son was 3 weeks old. My doc told me it was because I had a strong core that I recovered so well and so quickly. Physiotherapist here! When somebody says 'abdominal muscles' they are mostly referring to rectus abdominus which is the 'six pack' muscle. This muscle helps you to do sit-ups and that is all (and I guess it looks good if toned). But the real important abdominal muscles are underneath the rectus abdominus. One of the primary muscles involved in keeping your abdomen together and supporting your lower back in a muscle called transverse abdominus. This muscle together with a couple of others including the diaphragm, makes up the 'core' muscles. Transverse abdominus acts as a corset around your body so, when working optimally, it can prevent any splitting of rectus abdominus during pregnancy. I had an 11 pound babe and at the time I got preggo I was a very fit petite 115 lb person. I carried her all in front and she stretched my abs so far apart that I had a 7 finger abdominal split. I ended up with diastasis recti and an umbilical hernia. But, as any mother would,say, she was completely worth it :) 5'1', had a trainer, lookin good, six pack..and then, whoosh....gone. In a store: Hello, is there anything I can help you find? When I turned around, I took everything out. The clothes rack, small children! I Still had that nine year old body from behind but my stomach was a torpedo beast! I loved the gasp from the store clerk, turning into a weak supportive smile. My My.. I was having twins. My skin never went back. I was never overly concerned about it. However, I had my gallbladder taken out last friday. On the monday after my surgery, I was getting ready to fly home. I was coming out of a 2 day post surgery black out...fog was descending. I looked down at the bandaid and I saw a hole...like a hole...Nawwwwwwww. I quickly tried to talk myself out of this beautiful event which might have taken place. It's from the swelling that is somehow causing a hole where my belly button was, then stretched away, and here again..could it be? I run out to my mom sitting on the couch (she & my father had to fly down) and I ask...Is this a belly button? Did he give me a belly button? Did I ask the surgeon to give me a belly button? Why yes you did, right before surgery. I did?! How did the heavens open up to give me the clarity to jump on this ticket? I mean I was so sick, no memory of anything because of the drugs and there! There! That inner voice stood strong and had enough sense to ask! My boys are 9 and I can't afford plastic surgery...I have accepted the skin that hangs like an utter...but I swear to god, this moment of giddiness, happiness, was like that Time magazine picture of the little boy receiving a new pair of shoes....just the best feeling! A BELLY BUTTON! It looks like a melting mouth on an utter but it's there!!! It is there! What a good surgeon! He was probably like WOW, jeez! Ouch! WOW! Yeah, noooooo problem! Also, if I do a half sit up, I can put the tips of my fingers thru my abdominal muscles...down the middle..like there's a space. I think they stretched and never grew back together. To bad insurance doesnt pay for that. I think my back it worse for it.. I do have my sweet boys though! What'ya gonna do? It doesn't matter your fitness level- the abdominal muscles have to separate to accomodate the growing uterus. Being fit before and during pregnancy can help aid in your delivery and recovery, but will not exempt you from the changes to every single system of the body that pregnancy requires. To the women of this thread who have or will go through pregnancy/childbirth - - You are all amazing. I can tell that a lot of folks here don't actually know what goes on during pregnancy. In short, it has nothing to do whether you are fit, out of shape, whether the baby is 6 lbs, 10 lbs, etc. As far as we know, only genetics play a factor. There are several 'fit' ladies who have their body practically destroyed by pregnancy, and there are several 'unfit' ladies that come out of pregnancy in better shape than they went in. The best that scientist can come up with is genetics...some women aren't meant to have babies, others are meant to have tons of babies. How I know: I have many kids, and know many parents. I have also researched this subject extensively as my wife has had issues after having multiple kids. Omg I am currently 31 weeks pregnant and I am obsessed with what's happening to my ab muscles!! Can't believe there's a post about it Where my mum is from (Mozambique) the women tie the babies to their backs with blankets called capulana. Not only does this bind the belly after pregnancy (since your belly muscles basically just split in two) it bonds your baby to you and you can get on with all your chores! She did this with all 3 of us even though she was in the uk and her figure was great. I experienced diastasis recti after having my daughter. My core strength, and thus, posture were absolute crap for a whole year - even though i worked out both during and after my pregnancy. It was only when i discovered something called "Tupler Technique" that i realized some of the things i was doing to get "fit" were actually aggravating the issue. I started doing the tupler technique and it was really freaking effective! So i just wanted to recommend it to other mamas experiencing diastasis recti (you might not even know you have it) Late to the party, but my wife has had two pregnancies. She kept active, as much as comfortable, through both. Came out ready to go and was as good as new shortly thereafter. For the record, it was her goal to stay fit and she acted accordingly. It wasn't by chance or for giggles but instead a conscious effort. Not looking to be a supermodel, just healthy. Nailed it. The uterus expands and the abdominal muscles are pushed to the sides. The stomach is not expanding outwardly so much as the uterus is moving upwards in the middle. This is why a woman's sides hurt during pregnancy around what is the oblique muscles. Those muscles are being stretched and other muscles are being pushed into them. The abdominal muscles don't stretch over the uterus because it would restrict the womb. A person with super fit abs will probably have less expansion and may have a smaller womb or look less pregnant. Whether or not they bounce back largely depends on how fit they are, their genetics, if they work out during pregnancy, and if they go back to working out. It depends on the condition of the mother's abdominal muscles pre pregnancy. The more fit it is, the better recovery although it won't be as good compared to its pre pregnancy status. Mothers with weak abdominal muscles pre pregnancy have risk of developing diastasis recti. I was an OBGYN nurse for 3 years and there were several mothers who had a visible 6 pack as the stomach flattened during the final pushes. I would stand there smiling and clapping while thinking "damn I gotta start going to the gym again". Not a doctor but... From my brief research it looks like the uterus stretches out above the abdominal muscles and more into your diaphragm such as in [this]( URL_1 ) or [this]( URL_0 ) image. (Both probably NSFW.) At least it stretches out above the abdominus rectus muscles that give you six pack abs. This sort of makes sense to me as I would imagine those muscles not to be very stretchy and therefore junior would expand someplace easier instead. Later in pregnancy they tell you not to lift heavy weights because they worry about the abdominal muscles squeezing the placenta too hard and rupturing it resulting in a premature birth so if you were a fit pregnant woman you would probably need to ease up on the crunches at that point. After you recover from your delivery you could probably start up again. I don’t know if your six pack would ever look the same but having babies can’t be that much of a long-term detriment to the woman or humans would have died out long ago. During? For me... each week, as I grew larger I would have a sharp pain... Week after week, if I twisted, or got up to fast... Ouch. Sharp pain on the midline... It kept getting higher and higher with each week. By week 36, the pain had stopped. At 40 weeks I had a baby. 6 weeks post, I was 120lbs at 5'5", but I had a belly. 6 months post, I had lost too much weight and was 104lbs. But I still had a belly. Next baby comes along. No pain, no ripping, but, if I did a crunch, she'd pop up like an alien. It was fun to push her out and convolute my stomach, it was easy because I had no muscles there. Ended up with C-section. The doctor asked if she could do a tummy tuck... Okay. Go for it. What she really meant was she took my muscles from either side of my belly, and sewed them back together. So, not only did I have my c section stitches running across, but I also had stitches internally all the way to my belly button. Now, 3 kids in, My muscles didn't rip with my last pregancy. I'm a mom of 3, 125lbs with a flat stomach. So, In short... They rip, they stick out, and they get sewn up again for a flat tummy. I think it would mostly depend on the size of the baby but having a strong core will definitely mitigate the damage. Helps get the little bugger out faster too. The obstetrician said he was amazed how fast my son came out because most first babies take at least an hour to push out (ugh, I would die!) Mine were 6lbs and 5lbs and I've always worked out.. I see no discernible difference in my body from pre-baby to now. I wear a girdle after the birth for a month and with my last baby I started working out 2 weeks after delivery (I gave myself a month for my first). Maybe there is permanent damage in there that I'm just not aware of but my ab definition looked the same to me after about 12 weeks. Be careful about any exercise or belly binding in the first 6 months after having a baby and with breastfeeding. Your hormones makes your bones and muscles soft. The famous women that get back into shape weeks after birth are probably causing themselves problems we cant see or feel! Strong muscles might cause a prolapse. I have had 5 kids and no problems. I just do the usual house and kid duties for the first 6 months with help from my partner (alot of help)... Then start going on walks and will probably hit the gym soon (8 months post birth). I am pretty skinny but have a wrinkly jelly belly. I am not really expecting my body to be how it was before kids again... My partner is still interested in me and says he knows why my tummy is like jelly ... Its a nice story... 40 week twins! :) I asked a similar question once when I was younger and apparently "Wow, how could you ask such an insensitive question?!" is the answer...
Because you need the microphone to be right next to your ear for it to work. If the phone is in your pocket, it can't pick up the exact sounds it needs to cancel, because the sound at your hip is slightly different than at your ear. Additionally, there is the delay caused by the wire which would likely cause the cancellation noise to be too late to be effective. And then there is also that the headphone has dedicated hardware, allowing it to work very quickly, the phone does not, introducing an additional source of latency that greatly reduces its effectiveness. *Edit: Spelling
Colors are a response your brain makes to picking up certain wavelengths of electromagnetic radiation striking receptor cells in your brain. When this happens, those cells send signals to your brain, and your brain creates the image. Certain combinations of stimulation on those cells cause your brain to generate different colors, to help further discriminate, because this is a beneficial evolutionary adaptation (harder for things to blend together). Color itself is not a property of light or anything. Rather, a product of your brain interpreting it.
The big thing is if you are rich, you (usually) don't have to worry about a regular paycheck to get by. That gives you a lot of options to avoid (legal) or evade (illegal) taxes. For example, instead of a salary, you might choose to get paid in stock options, that don't get taxed until they are exercised. If you own a profitable business, you might forgo a salary altogether, knowing you can sell shares in the business anytime you want. Note these are both a perfectly legal and ethical way to *defer* taxes...you will pay them eventually, but it might leave you with years you don't pay any personal income tax. Also, your businesses are still paying taxes. Another reason the wealthy don't need steady income is they can shift expenses to their businesses. You don't worry about the payment on your Beemer, the company owns it. Same with your Manhattan loft and the beach house in the Caribbean. Getting into some of the more shady techniques... You can set up a non-profit you control, and "donate" money to it, and get a tax deduction. Then you can hire family members to "work" for the non-profit, so they spend its money instead of yours. They still pay taxes, but since your are spreading that money out rather than taking it as income, they are in a lower tax bracket. You can also move money offshore. Want to sell your old yatch? Sell in in the Cayman Islands, put the money in their bank, and the US gov't never knows about the income. Finally, the wealth hire really good tax lawyers. If you are an middle class working professional, you might earn a nice 100K a year, and pay about $35K in income tax. A clever tax pro might be about to knock $5K off of that, but if it costs you $10K to do it, that's not a win. But if you made $10M last year, and looking at a $3.5M tax bill, what you can save will hire a whole lot of lawyers. Even if you get caught doing something dodgy, those same smart lawyers, many of whom used to work for the IRS, will be going up against career bureaucrats in court, and might just prevail anyway. High profile people who don't pay taxes generally aren't breaking the law, they're using the law as written to let them minimize their tax burden (unless they're actively hiding income). The criticisms aren't that these people are breaking the law, the criticism is that the system lets them do that and it's unfair to everyone else.
It's not "made up" anything in particular. It's just a concept. A byte is a string of eight bits, and a bit is just a binary digit. A number. And it doesn't make much sense to ask "what is a number made of, and how big is it?" In computers, bits are stored in lots of different ways, depending on the device. HDDs store bits as the alignment of magnetic fields on a spinning metal platter. SSDs store bits as extra electrons being pumped into memory cells. Your CPU deals with bits as being different voltages across wires. A CD stores bits as raised and lowered regions of the surface that reflect light differently. In short, a bit is just a number that can be either 1 or 0, on or off, yes or no. Any thing that you can think of that can store and represent two states can store a bit. The light switch on the wall in your home stores one bit of information. Up, and the light is on. Down, and the light is off. It's basically just a bunch of 1s and 0s that make up binary code. 1 byte = 8 bits, or a series of eight 1s and 0s. A gigabyte is 1 billion bytes. When you store these bits on something, you're just storing a representation of the bits. For example, with DVDs/Blu Rays, this bits are represented by a series of "pits" that the laser can read off the disc. The data is written in a track that goes around the entire disc like a record. As the laser passes along this track, it can detect when there's a pit, and when there isn't. These spaces of "pits" and "not pits" represent the 1s and 0s of binary. There are many other ways to store this type of information, and people are always looking for faster, cheaper, more dense ways of storing bits. You could, in theory, simply write a series of dots and dashes on a piece of paper and store binary information that way. A byte is just stored information made up of eight bits. Bits can store two states either a yes or a no represented by a 1 or a 0. They can be stored two ways depending on what type of storage you have. A SSD stores information inside transistors utilizing electrons. If there is voltage inside the transistor it is a 1 otherwise it is 0. Technically increasing the amount of data inside an SSD will increase its weight just by a completely useless to even mention amount. Each one of these transistors store one bit. A physical platter hard drive uses a metal disk that we can freely alter and read the magnetic fields at any given point inside the disk. If the magnetic field is facing one way it is a true if it is facing the opposite direction it is false. Each one of these domains that we can alter and read would be one bit. Alright. A byte is made up of 8 bits. A bit is a number that can only be 0 or 1. It can basically have two states - 1 or 0. It can be represented anywhere where there's two states - a light switch can be either on (1) or off (0), as an example. That's a bit. Bits used to be represented as all sorts of things. For example, on a punch card, the presence of a hole means a 1, while the absence of it means a 0. The computer used a light sensor to determine whether there was a hole punched in or not. And a bit is as large as the device that's used to represent it. Or, a bit can be as small as you can make it. For example, on a modern hard drive, a bit occupies an area of 250x25 nanometers, or 6250 square nanometers. Or 0,000000000000000000625 square centimeters. And if you can change the state of something that represents a bit, you can write a bit. It's as simple as that. On a hard drive, bits are represented by magnetic fields. It's basically like an old audio cassete, but stretched over a disc. The platter inside a hard drive is basically like a "magnetic canvas", and the read/write head can either sense the magnetic fields change as it spins, or overwrite the magnetic fields by using an electromagnet to "paint new magnetic fields" over the old ones. Certain patterns of magnetic fields represent a 0, and some other pattern represents a 1. About if it changes the weight of a hard drive... it doesn't, and it doesn't need to. Imagine a light switch - it weighs the same whether it's on or off. The only difference between it being on or off, is that the light will glow if the switch is on. But that's not always the case - on a thumb drive, for example, bits are stored as an electrostatic charge, which does have some weight - but it's so small it's basically undetectable. And about bytes, megabytes, gigabytes... A byte is basically an array of 8 bits. Together, they form a number that can range from 0 to 255. How is it so? Just like you can form numbers up to 99.999.999 by pairing together 8 digits, by pairing together 8 bits you can form numbers up to 1111 1111, which is the same as 255 in our decimal system. A kilobyte (KB) is a group of 1024* bytes. A megabyte (MB) is a group of 1024* kilobytes. A gigabyte (GB) is a group of 1024* megabytes. A terabyte (TB) is a group of 1024* gigabytes. And so on. You might be wondering why computers represent numbers as bits instead of decimal numbers, for example. The reason is that bits are very easy to read and write, while numbers with more states can require some guesswork to decide which state it's at. A good way to understand this is to picture a volume knob that goes from 0 to 9, but just has the 0 and the 9 written on it. Can you accurately tell at a glance which number it's at? You can guess, but you won't be right 100% of the time. *1 KB is technically 1000 bytes. But if you use Windows, it considers 1KB as being 1024 bytes. The unit of measure that actually represents 1024 bytes is called kibibyte (KiB). This is also why when you buy a 16GB flash drive, Windows reports that it only has 14,9GB instead of the 16GB it's supposed to have.
They were floppy when they were first created. If you look at URL_0 , which has the three most common sizes of floppy disks, the largest (8-inch) and the middle (5.25-inch) ones are housed in flexible plastic. By the time the smallest (3.5-inch) version, which is housed in hard plastic, came about, the name had already become established. They all also share the same flexible magnetic media on the inside, so they all have a "floppy" component even if their outer shell is made of hard plastic. Holy shit you know you're old when people don't know the answer to this. Back in the day, 5.25 inch disks were bendable/floppy. The name stuck even when they got smaller/harder. Because the original ones *were* floppy. The discs you're picturing are the rigid 3.5 inch 1.44MB variety - but before those were 5.25 inch ones which were pretty flexible.
I think it is almost a negative image of the ring or the bracelet. When you wear a ring or bracelet, the nerve endings beneath the skin are constantly being stimulated by the jewelry, so they grow desensitized to avoid overstimulating your brain. This means that after removing the ring or bracelet, you are exposing these nerve endings to nothing, literally nothing, meaning that they will no longer be being stimulated constantly, so they will once again start sending more information to the brain which will be processes again. Either the desensitized nerve endings after you take the bracelet off take some time to become resensitized, leaving you with an odd feeling of "numb" or "phantom" areas, or when it does become resensitized, even though it is no longer sending information to the brain, the brain still ignores information from them, instead replacing it with the "burnt out image" of the jewelry on your body until it realises that the stimuli in that area are no longer from a constant source. I'm no professional but I think this is what could be happening, but take it with a pinch of salt.
the core of Buddhism is that you are a human being who is driven by need. the need for money. the need for material things. the need for happiness. the need for fulfillment. your entire life, you are a slave of need. if you don't get what you need, you're in suffering. therefore the state of life is suffering from need. in order to get away from that, you need to reach the state of enlightenment, no longer bound by the suffering of need. The goal of Buddhism is to attain enlightenment. People make the mistake of assuming its a religion, but it's much more of a philosophy. It's about being happy and making those around you happy. In the words of Thich Nhat Hanh, "There is a misconception that buddhism is a religion and that you worship Buddha. Buddhism is a practice, like yoga, you can be a Christian and practice buddhism. I met a Catholic priest who lives in a Buddhist monastery in France. He told me that buddhism makes him a better Christian. I love that." It's not that hard to study what Buddhism is, it's based on what's called the Four Noble Truths. The first Noble Truth is the existence of something that in India at the time was called [Dukkha]( URL_1 ). It is a little difficult to translate, it means an badly placed axle hole (making for an uncomfortable ride) but is often translated into English as suffering/dissatisfaction/stress. The second Noble Truth is that that thing (Dukkha) arises during the life and death of a human being. The root cause is something called [Taṇhā]( URL_2 ) (the pain of thirst). Generally there are three categories of that thirst/craving/desire: Greed, Hatred, Delusion. Wanting something you don't have, not wanting something you have, and being unclear on the nature of reality (seeing it as different than it is). The third Noble Truth is that Dukkha can cease. One outlook in Buddhism is that all things that arise pass away. The fourth Noble Truth is something called the Eightfold Path. It's a list of practices/suggestions/principles that allow one to reduce the amount of Dukkha that arises in oneself and others. All of these eight qualities/areas are prefixed by a word hard to describe but it boils down to nurturing/complete. Often the word 'Right' is used but that some folks have a negative associations to the concept of Righteousness. Also if something is Right means there is something that is Wrong. It's more a sense of finding a complete/helpful way. One of the Eight is Wise Speech. Nurturing/complete is what is meant when when someone talks about '[Right Speech]( URL_0 )' Buddhism is like drinking chocolate milk after finishing all your chores. You are happy, your parents are happy, the world is happy. Attain inner peace. Buddhism, as others have mentioned, is about attaining enlightenment. Different Buddhist sects have differing methods on how this is done: some focus on chanting the Lotus Sutra (Mahayana Buddhism), while others focus on repeated, structured meditation. Ultimately, Buddhists aim to free themselves from earthly desire by letting go of their stressors in life, in this way "enlightenment" can be viewed similarly to "contentment" -- Buddhists strive to be content in their surroundings. It gets a bit more complicated when you look into attaining Buddhahood or becoming a Bodhisattva -- but basically a Buddha has mastered their craft to the point where they have moved on to another dimension. Conversely, a bohdisattva's job is to provide teachings throughout multiple lifetimes -- they do not attain enlightenment in the fullest sense -- but always return to the earthly plane to teach others how to attain enlightenment. At the risk of making comparisons that may mislead you, a bohdisattva is more like Jesus (in a sacrificial sense), whereas the Buddha has achieved enlightenment beyond our understanding (kind of, but not really like how the Christian God "works in mysterious ways" beyond human understanding). What makes you depressed or angry? You must desire something to ease those emotions, a desire of something that is unattainable at your current moment in time. If you can understand what you desire, you can understand why you're suffering. For example, if a loved one dies you will suffer. You will desire their continued life. Is such a desire reasonable? No, because immortality is not possible. You must eliminate the desire to ease the suffering. Furthermore, rituals can be performed to ease suffering. Many religions and cultures perform rituals. You may visit a gravestone, light a candle, or put some photos on a shelf. We must not let our desire take hold and a ritual can ground our state. We artificially attain enlightenment or Nirvana throughout our lives and watch as it slips through our fingers. We try to catch it but still some falls to Earth. We're left with less than we had before which may lead to more suffering if we don't understand our desires. When one truly attains Nirvana they are happy with even a single grain of sand or none at all, it belongs to Earth. I don't claim to be an expert, this is how I perceive it. You should do some research on the Four Noble Truths and The Eightfold Path.
So the big common misunderstanding is that Facebook, Google, and most large companies **don't** actually sell your personal information. Yes they collect it, but they don't sell it. Smaller and more unscrupulous companies will sell your data though, usually to email spammers. The big guys instead collect it, research it, and both share the results of that research and use that research to build more targeted ads. If some random company is like "I have a product for cat lovers, I'd love to buy some ads on facebook in front of people who like cats" Facebook can not only make *exactly that* happen for that company, they can also tell things like "people over 40 are more likely to click on these links" "surfers are more likely to click on these links" and stuff like that. So now you can put your ads for cat products in front of surfers too, since you know they're more likely to buy it than other demographics. Knowing *what kind of person* wnats to buy your stuff is extremely important, because it lets you put the ads or the product right in front of the kind of people who are most likely to be your customers. Generally it's not an excel document since it's generally massive and more efficient to do so in another manner, however it looks just like an excel document with checkmarks of certain behaviors. With that very rarely do they say "John Smith went to this website at this time to buy this product". Generally they make your data anonymous and include general information about your actions. I recently finished a project that dealt with buying prospective customers in the insurance industry so I'll give you a story. If you type search for an insurance policy online and give your email to a website, that website can turn around to a 3rd party company that cleans up your data, adds to it using cookies on your browser and estimates some stuff about you (age, sex, income, location etc.) based on your other habits. From there an insurance agent buys your information from that 3rd party company. The price is based on how valuable you are, income, assets, chance you'll sign up for a policy all, come into play. I've seen $20 for a single persons info down to $1 per person in a bulk buy. I worked with these kind of people for a while. At least sort of. So I worked in the It department of a major Car Dealership chain. We had 10 different buildings with 18 different manufacturers. Part of my job was to export data to several different companies for various reasons. So when you buy a car, or get service done, you get a customer profile built in the system. This typically includes a bunch of general info about you and your car. Sometimes this means your SSN. Well, Dealerships love sending out letters to their customers, or anyone really, about how they really need some new stock, so they'll give you a great deal on a new car, or a trade in, or something else. These are called mailers. We pay a third party company to make mailers for us. Part of the deal, is we export a bunch of client info for them, and they send out the mailers. Now, naturally, this sounds like a super exploitable system, and it is/was depending on who you ask. There are several companies that create these dealership software systems, but there are really 2 or 3 big ones across the USA. The big ones have standards, and typically require the small 3rd party companies to apply for a license to export data. So the Big company would charge the littler company somewhere around $80,000 to grant them permission to a data feed. Now, as much as we'd like to believe that being certified means that these 3rd party companies were clean and ethical, we know they weren't. We know this because of cross dealership bleeding. So, lets say I buy my car at the Toyota dealership. Then a couple months later I'm going to start getting mailers from the Toyota dealership "General Manager" about service specials or trade in opportunities. This is normal, and should technically happen. Except maybe a year or two later, I get a mailer from the Hyundai dealership about *their* service specials and their trade in offers. See, someone at Hyundai was "clever" and bought a chunk of customers from the mailer company in a hope to reach new clients. Now apply this to almost every other piece of junk mail you probably get, and you get an idea of why people want your information. Edit: The data looks messy in a standard .CSV file. CSV stands for comma seperated values. And in notepad it would look like this John Does, 1952, 123 Street Ln, Town, Zip, Toyota, 801237, Sport, White, White, Jane Doesnt, 1983,,,,Toyota 423414,, Gold, Tan Jose Can, 1990, 456 Curbside St, Town, Zip, Scion, 210543, D, Blue, Black
Capsaicin (the chemical that makes stuff spicy) is not water soluble. Drinking water or soda actually just moves the capsaicin around your mouth, spreading it so it's affecting a larger area. Drink something with lots of fat such as milk, as capsaicin is fat soluble, so it will stick to the fat and go down to your tummy.
Muscle never, ever, ever turns directly into fat under any circumstance. Muscle fibers demand. Lot of calories to keep up (take a look at The Rock's diet sometime), and working out basically proves that that level of muscle is required. It "justifies" the caloric expense, so to speak. When you stop working out long enough, the justification is gone, and your body stops using the calories to build or keep up the muscle fibers, and they shrink to a size more appropriate for your level of exercise. If you keep eating like you did when you were working out, and you have more calories going in than being used, then your body stores it as fat instead of directing it towards muscle.
Liquid nitrogen makes things extremely cold, much colder than what you experience your kitchen's freezer for instance. This makes objects transition from being flexible to being fragile at a molecular level. This is called the glass transition and it is because molecules cannot easily slip and slide on a microscopic scale bonds cannot break and reform, and thus cracks will start and quickly spread, causing the material to become brittle and break. Most things we experience never get that cold but liquid nitrogen reaches temps in the negative triple digits and most materials have glass transition temps that are higher than that (rubber for example has a glass transition temp of -95 degree F so liquid nitrogen would make it shatter.
This one is quite strange and interesting. Your brain calibrates the sound's arrival time against the reflected sound that bounces off your shoulders and torso and back to your ears. It's more complicated than that and pretty fascinating... URL_0 You know those curves and dips of your outer ear? They (called pinnae) serve the function to not only catch sound waves but to alter the frequency of the waves depending on which angle the sound waves came from. This is also how we know if the sound is in front or behind us.
Oh i know why Greenland is called Greenland! Erik the Red was exiled there from Iceland. He wanted to develop the Island more with communities and people and such. But it was a rather barren icy place, so he called it Greenland in order to attract more people there. Greenland is huge compared to Iceland, it's also extends further North. More land mass allows more space for ice. That's why Greenland has more ice than Iceland.
never seen this in the movies, and this would not be true in real life. think of aloha air flight 243. a huge chunk of the cabin skin peeled off, instantly depresurizng it. it landed safely. There is nothing about depressurization itself that would cause a plane to crash. As another commenter noted, planes have landed safely even after violent depressurization. However, there is the possibility that depressurization will cause the plane to crash for a couple reasons. First, if the pilots do not get on supplemental oxygen before losing consciousness, there will be no one to fly the plane and it will eventually crash. See [Helios Flight 522]( URL_0 ). Second, very fast depressurization can be a violent event - it is often called "explosive decompression" for a reason. The forces from explosive decompression can damage the plane enough to make it crash. For example, in 1954 this brought down two [de Havilland Comets]( URL_1 ), which had flawed windows.
Imagine you run a taxi business that runs from Point A to Point B. You take passengers between only these two points. You overhear that some of your passengers mention they like to travel from Point C to Point D with another taxi business on occasion. So you strike an agreement with the other business to allow your customers to ride on their route, and theirs to ride on yours, with streamlined service between cars, and even perks for riding with both. Overall, it's a way for airlines to expand their markets to other continents and continue to grow their brand in an international capacity, even if they don't have the resources to commit to actually flying the route themselves.
Because your car also has a big side profile and wind has a big force. 3000 pounds doesn't mean you're immovable. A gentle 10mph Wind can move sail ships tens of thousands of pounds given enough sail area. wind hit the sides and gets underneath, and while your car weighs 3000 lbs, it had shocks that are built to move/respond to force. The wind does not blow your car around, it changes the geometry of your steering system. That system is made up of the steering wheel, rack and front tires along with the suspension system. The pliability of the suspension allows your car to roll left and right a few degrees as well as up and down. High-performance suspensions are designed specifically to reduce the rolling movement because it tends to steer you toward from the compressed side, i.e. away from the wind or corner. In a turn, with the car rolling toward the outside, this is part of what causes the wheel to want to return to center. At low speeds, it takes large changes in control geometry to accelerate the car left or right. When making a turn onto a road from a stop you may need to turn the wheel almost to its stop. At high speed, increasingly smaller control inputs are needed to accelerate the car laterally. To change lanes on the freeway you only need to turn the wheel a little bit. This is where the small deviations the wind create have their most profound effect.
It is less likely to happen, and "old age" in the wild is usually younger than in captivity, but there's absolutely no *rule* that says this can't happen. It is absolutely *possible* for an animal to die peacefully of old age in the wild. Note that I assumed you meant an *individual* animal, not an entire species. That said, there are apex predators (or creatures without natural enemies in their environment). And there are animals with *incredibly* strong social ties, where members of the herd will care for each other. Elephants are a prime example of this - their social structure is *incredible* and includes what appears to be altruism to levels you'd not normally associate wth animals. Elephants can often die of old age. Elephants are actually one species that lives *longer* in the wild than in captivity. Elephants didn't even have any natural predators until we showed up... I just watched National Geographic last night. A gorilla, who was the leader, just laid down for a while and died. No fight, pretty peaceful. "Old age" is not an actual cause of death. When we say people die of "old age" we tend to mean elderly people die from complications of chronic conditions. It's a term lay people use when they are unaware of the actual cause of death. It implies the person died "naturally" and not from, say, murder/suicide/infection/drug overdose/freak blimp accident. These people actually die of mundane things such as a heart attacks, stroke, etc. Quite possibly in their sleep. If the person was old, had a history of coronary artery disease, and had no signs of foul-play it's unlikely that anyone will investigate and perform an autopsy to determine the actual cause of death. EDIT: I don't think the rest of your question registered with me. Lots of animals die this way. Just think of pets. Goldfish. Cats. Dogs. Animals die of old age all the time. In the wild, something is likely to eat them if they're too old or sick to defend themselves or escape, but the point is still true.
My degree is in microbiology, not optometry, however I can see the reason they would recommend this. Not all bacteria are easily killed by means of boiling. In fact, for nearly every means of disinfecting bacteria we have, there are some bacteria to which it does not affect. More importantly, solid surfaces such as the inside of your contact case are susceptible to biofilm formation, which are clusters of bacteria that are incredibly difficult to penetrate even by antibiotics. If biofilms form on your contact, you risk obtaining an infection known as a stye from Staphyloccocus aureus. So even if you disinfect your contact case with everything from heat to antibiotics, it's safer to just obtain a new sterile case. For the same reason you should always take your contacts out and rinse them in new solution. It's possible that you could sterilize your case by boiling it, but these types of recommendations are for general advice; you won't be able to know if you've effectively sterilized your case.
There are 3 systems involved in maintaining balance. * Vestibular (Inside your ear there's fluid which kind of acts like a bubble level. Telling you when you're not leveled in a direction) * Somatosensory (A bunch of sensors in the skin, tendons, ligaments, and muscles which tells the brain what's going on. Imagine the feeling when you feel your foot about to slip off of something. The sensors are telling the body somethings about to move) * Visual (Your eyes look at the world around you and figure out where you are in relation to everything else.) Visual is the most important component in this system. Which is the reason it's hard to balance when you close your eyes. Without vision, you rely on somatosensory and vestibular systems to balance. Which is enough to balance, however they're usually not as well trained, and thus your ability to balance decreases. [Here's a video showing how important vision is for balance, especially in children!] ( URL_0 )
They have a profit margin built into their items, and they are willing to decrease the profit margin in order to keep customers. They'd rather make less money on each sale, than annoy customers and stop selling anything at all. Sometimes stores also have loss leaders. For example, supermarkets will often have very cheap milk, and lose money on every liter of milk they sell - but people who come in to buy milk will usually also buy other things. So the store's profit margin is not calculated on each item, but on each customer's total shopping basket, or the average shopping basket across every time that customer comes into the shop. (It's worth losing money a couple of times to generate a habit in the customer of shopping at your store, not your competitor's.) Of course, eventually they do have to raise their prices. There was a documentary on Channel 4 answering this question called Secrets of Poundland. Doesn't look like it is legally available online any more but the main point of it was talking about the size if the packets. Just some examples (I am making the numbers up as I can't remember them exactly just to give you an idea): -They used to sell multi-packs of crips with 12 packets in, now they sell them with 8 in -They sell sizes of jars etc. at non-standard sizes, e.g a 100g of Nutella whereas Tesco might be selling 150g for £1.20 -They also have a lot of multipacks with "free" items, i.e. they sold 8 packs of kitkats but now sell packs of 6 with 2 extra free
What's left the umbilicus cord. It connects to the liver and it's mostly just remnant, but there are still some small veins in there, which can expand if you have certain blood pressure issues. If you are up for a less ELI5 explanation, check out [this]( URL_0 ) post from r/askscience. The umbilical cord provides oxygenated and nutrient-rich blood from the placenta (and mother) to the developing fetus (see [this illustration]( URL_0 )) Once the baby is born, these blood vessels contract and cut off bloodflow through this route. These vessels which are no longer needed become ligaments, highlighted in [this illustration]( URL_1 ). So from the inside of the abdominal cavity, the umbilicus looks like a shallow depression in the abdominal wall.
Pencils grind a layer of graphite onto the surface of the paper. Erasers work by rubbing off that layer of graphite. But since the surface of paper isn't even, it has little pockets, the eraser may not be able to get all the graphite out. if you stop pressing so hard while writing so that your pencil doesn't leave dents in the paper then you'll be able to erase things fully. close up, paper [looks like this]( URL_0 ). Pencils write by rubbing off very fine powder onto this very rough surface. It's amazing that (good) erasers work as well as they do - trying to remove the graphite powder by just rubbing the surface. Paper isn't perfectly smooth it has very small bumps and dips called the tooth. If you press too hard while writing or drawing you flatten out that tooth making your pencil marks into deep valleys that the rubber is too large to get into. Try to practise not pressing so hard when you use the pencil and you will find it easier to erase later.
The simple truth that is that thin people eat less food than fat people. The science is irrefutable. I'm thin, I eat whatever kinds of food I want, I'm not constantly exercising or at the gym. I constantly hear people tell me how lucky I am because I have a high metabolism, but when we sit down to eat, it's immediately obvious that my metabolism has a lot less to do with it than the fact that their plate has 2-3 times as much food on it as mine, they are drinking 1-2 glasses of soda with their meal (I usually drink water), then have seconds and/or desert, and afterward they would never think of taking the stairs instead of the elevator. The bottom line is, just practice reasonable portion control and get moderate exercise each day. That's it. A box of cookies isn't for consuming in one sitting, soda should not be your main source of hydration, a bit of walking outside in the fresh air isn't that hard to do. Because some people are better at subconsciously regulating their caloric intake than others. Those that seem to lack the instinctive regulation must keep track of calories eaten and expenditure much more closely than those who have the ability. Being overweight is a choice, not always a conscious one, but a decision to overeat is made none the less. It's one of those things that doesn't boil down to any one issue. Genetics play a large part in those people who can eat anything they want and never gain any weight. Age also plays a factor in metabolism as most people's metabolism slows down as they get older. Some people just eat more. I, for example, am a very picky eater. A lot of things just don't look appetizing to me whereas my brother is like a garbage disposal. He'll eat anything you put in front of him and this could be a reason why he's overweight. And I have different tastes. It could be genetic or just acquired but I very much prefer savory and salty things to sweet things. I barely ever eat candy or chocolate and haven't eaten cake or pie for years. However I'm eating a bag of chips as I type this. Carbohydrates are better for your metabolism than simple sugars like candy bars. Some people have stronger "hunger pangs" than others. Again for example, I can go a whole day without eating (and I do regularly) and while i'll be slightly tired, I won't be angry or in pain. My brother will tear your head off if he hasn't eaten in a few hours. His stomach (whether its a learned behavior or a physical response) just hurts more and craves food "harder". Some of it is a philosophy of eating. I have very strict rules about the way I eat. I like to sit down, relax, and turn on a TV show while eating. I won't eat by myself unless I have a TV show on and I'm relaxed. My brother can't even make it home usually before tearing open fast food and going at it. The choices you make are also to blame. When I go to In'n'Out I get a cheeseburger meal (mustard instead of spread), fries, and an iced tea. My brother gets a double double (extra spread), an animal fries (fries with tons of spread on it), and a coke. We both went to the same restaurant but he consumed many more calories than I did. (spread is basically just thousand Island dressing for anyone who doesn't live in California). It also snowballs. If your body is expecting 4,000 calories because you eat that much almost every day then it will want that much and its even easier to pack another 500 calories in there on a day where you over ate. I'm used to around 1,000 to 1,500 per day so getting to 2,000 would be almost hard to do and probably make me sick. Edit: I also wanted to mention drugs. Some people smoke which makes them eat a lot less. I know a lot more skinny smokers than fat ones. And I started taking lexapro (antidepressants) a few months ago which has completely destroyed my already low appetite. So you never know what chemicals are being ingested that may affect someones weight. Birth control is another that has been thought to cause weight gain although I have no citation or proof for this. Some of this may be anecdotal but the truth is there is no one answer to why this happens. The only surefire way to lose weight is to eat less calories than you burn every day for a long time. Since the amount of calories you burn total is very hard to calculate, it comes down to you to figure out what lifestyle shows you results. Eating less and/or better helps you gain fewer calories, going to the gym helps you burn more.
There is no such thing as "Electricity on Standby". Electricity is the flow of electrons, much the same way that water from a faucet flows out. You experience electricity doing work as it flows through your light bulb. Until that flow starts there is no electricity. That flow cannot start until your circuit is completed by turning the light on. Imagine the light as the kitchen sink drain and the electricity as the water flowing into that drain. You are allowing it to flow, thus 'consuming' it.
You have Tinnitus, my friend. It is one of the least debilitating diseases in the world, so don't worry. It only means that when it's quiet you may hear a high-pitched sound.
Skeletal muscles move bones by pulling on them. Because we control this movement, they are called voluntary muscles. Muscles can pull but not push, so skeletal muscles are often arranged in pairs that pull bones in opposite directions.
[RT article]( URL_0 ) > It was previously thought that the organ was an unimportant group of structures, but it has now been classified as one single organ, which connects the abdomen to the intestine. It wasn't 'discovered' in the sense of some surgeon going 'Hey guys, what is this?' Researchers just found that a group of structures seem to work together more closely than was previously thought. The simile is a little weak, but try thinking of it like Pluto. It just got reclassified.
Falsifiability is a property of a statement about the world. It was proposed by Karl Popper as a way to tell scientific statements from metaphysical statements. If a statement is falsifiable, it is part of science. If it is not, it is not. That doesn't mean it's wrong or stupid, it just means it's not science. So specifically what it means is, if there is no way to tell if a statement is _false_, then it's not part of science. That doesn't mean you have to be able to prove it false, of course — many true things are falsifiable. But it means there must be a way to "test" it, and specifically to test it by proving it _wrong_. Let's go with a concrete example. Here is a statement about the world: "There is an invisible, undetectable unicorn that keeps the Sun shining." If this were true, I would note, the Sun would shine. I look into the sky and lo and behold, the Sun is shining! And lo, I can come up with an experiment: if I shout out, "unicorn O unicorn, make the Sun shine tomorrow!", you will see the Sun shine tomorrow. Ah, but what if you _don't_ shout that out? Well the unicorn loves us and the Sun so he'll keep shining anyway, but I think he's probably sad to not hear his name. Great, says Popper. That's a statement for why the Sun shines, to be sure. But your only evidence is about proving it _true_. It's not science unless there is something you can do to prove it _false_. In this situation there is no way to disprove the statement — if I call to the unicorn, the Sun shines, if I don't, the Sun shines. This statement cannot really be tested, and the fact that all visible evidence seems to align with the theory does not mean a damned thing, because you can come up with an infinite number of theories that fit the evidence _if_ they are not falsifiable. And so this is why this matters. You can always come up with theories that fit any evidence with exceptions. What matters to Popper are places where you've really put it to the test. So if instead I say, well, my unicorn _requires_ me to sing to it every day... I can test that by not singing to it. "The Sun only rises because a unicorn gets sun to every day, and wouldn't rise if nobody sang to it" is a totally falsifiable, and thus scientific, statement. It happens to be testably _wrong_. But that's not what Popper cares about. Let's take a less silly example: "large amounts of mass can bend the direction that light travels." This was a consequence of what Einstein argued with his General Relativity theory. Pretty cool statement. Is it falsifiable? Yes — you can do experiments (the first involved photographing stars near the Sun during a total solar eclipse) to see if it's true. If the stars are where Einstein predicted they'd be — then the statement is judged a true one. If they aren't, then Einstein is wrong. Either way, it's still falsifiable, so it's science. Popper developed this approach because at the time a lot of people thought the key distinguishing factor between science and non-science was that they made statements about evidence ("verificationism"). Popper saw a lot of things that made statements about evidence that didn't look to him like science. Freudianism was high on his list: Popper thought they were essentially non-falsifiable. Freudians said their model of the mind was correct because their patients got better. If patients didn't get better, it was the patients' fault, or maybe the analyst, but never the model of the mind. The model could never be tested in a way that the Freudians thought would prove it wrong — so to Popper, whatever its value, it wasn't science. It is worth noting that this isn't a perfect way to distinguish science from non-science, and the usefulness of falsifiability is considered somewhat limited. There are lots of sub-issues that come up if you pry into it, like, what if it's only _hypothetically_ falsifiable (e.g. it requires all of the energy in the universe to test), or what if it's just not _yet_ falsifiable, and so on. The fact that String Theory is not falsifiable (as of yet, anyway) has led a lot of scientists to declare that falsifiability is only partially useful — you can make of that what you will. You have to be able to prove something is false to be able to prove it's true. Example A: I say that I can run faster than you. We race. I either beat you, or you beat me in the race. That is falsifiable because you could prove that I cannot run faster than you. Example B: I say that God is real. There is no way for me to prove that is correct. But, there is no way to prove that I'm incorrect. All we can do is debate, but nobody can prove anything. Example: I claim that there is always a hitler standing behind you that disappears when observed. Can you disprove this claim? Well, no, I covered my ass by saying that I'm right and that any time you check, it will disappear. Does this mean that my "Schrodinger's Hitler" hypothesis should be taken as fact? No, because there's no condition under which it is false and therefore is not falsifiable. Let's try again: I claim that there is a hitler in your bathroom right now. Can you disprove this claim? Yes, you could check your bathroom for Nazi leaders. If you check your bathroom and find a Führer, then we have evaluated the falsifiable parameter and have therefore established that this claim is true. If there is no hitler, then we reject your hypothesis. Falsifiability is so important because it allows us to clearly distinguish between what reality looks like when a claim is true and when a claim is false. If you cannot tell any difference, then your claim is ultimately pointless. Say that there really is a hitler behind you at all times that no one can observe. Why does it matter if it doesn't influence the world? How is it any different from the world without a hitler behind you?
PEMEX is wholly owned by the Mexican government and controls all oil/gas production and distribution in Mexico. By law only it can distribute gasoline and prior to 2015 only it could carry out oil exploration. PEMEX also subsidizes the gas sold in Mexico, but this hasn't been a traditional subsidy where PEMEX runs at a loss and the government offsets its losses to allow it to function. Rather, PEMEX would sell gasoline domestically either at or below its cost of production. But despite that, PEMEX was still exporting enough oil and gas to still turn a profit. This profit historically made up a decent percentage of the Mexican government's budget. This changed starting in 2012. Since that time PEMEX has lost around $70 billion. The government has directly subsidized about $23.5 billion of those losses, with the remainder of the losses being financed. This is an unsustainable position for PEMEX to be in because the Mexican government depends upon PEMEX's profits to function, and now the government has to pay to keep PEMEX in existence. PEMEX's losses are blamed on two things: chronic mismanagement and its domestic fuel subsidy. To help return PEMEX to profitability the Mexican government is taking steps to address both of those problems. The first is that although PEMEX still officially controls oil production in Mexico, the government has opened oil exploration up to foreign investors if they bring PEMEX into the deal as a minority "shareholder" (and I put shareholder in quotes because the idea behind these deals is that the only thing PEMEX will bring to the deal is the oil exploration rights it gives up; ie, PEMEX puts in no money or work but gets some percentage of the profits for simply allowing the exploration to proceed). The idea here is that PEMEX would have nothing to do with the actual management of these new oil development projects, therefore bypassing PEMEX's bloated and incompetent management. The ultimate problem that the government is trying to solve here is that a large percentage of PEMEX's workforce are managers who do nothing but manage other managers. This is both costly, because you're paying a lot of people to do essentially nothing, and also inefficient because all of those people are needed to sign off on anything the company does, and there are now so many people who need to sign off on everything that its hard for the company to actually do anything. Then to add another layer of bad onto this structure, a lot of these managers got their jobs because they were someone's family or friend - most of the people working at PEMEX have no qualifications and no idea what they're doing. The Mexican government is trying to bypass PEMEX's management while keeping it in place, rather than internally reforming PEMEX because doing so would result in the firing of large numbers of middle class workers which could cause possible social unrest. Officially the government opened PEMEX up to foreign investment in 2015, but thus far there has been very little interest in it due to a combination of low oil prices and the absolutely horrible terms that PEMEX has been offering foreign investors. Not only has this first attempt to revitalize PEMEX been a failure, but the collapse of oil prices in 2015 has accelerated the rate at which PEMEX is losing money. This led to the Mexican government deciding to abandon PEMEX's domestic fuel subsidy as of the start of this year, hence the increase in domestic gas prices. The Mexican government wants to bring PEMEX back to profitability, and based on the slow rate of reform thus far appears to be taking a wait and see approach - it only went ahead with the fuel subsidy abandonment because allowing foreign investment didn't work. So now if oil prices rise and the abandonment of the domestic fuel subsidy allow PEMEX to become profitable again then there probably won't be any more reform. However, if PEMEX continues to bleed money then you'll probably see the Mexican government do something else in another year or so, but what that is is anyone's guess.
Both Firefly and Futurama are good shows with a cult following but not good ratings in the average population. Most of the bad shows have a lot of viewers because their content hits a much broader market. The production cost of these shows also plays a big part. Most bad shows can be mass produced for almost nothing. Hire a bunch of bad writers and bad actors and give them a TV set bought on the cheap and a film crew under training and you have a cheap soap opera watched by millions. Or rent a concert hall, sell tickets to be in the audience and on stage, hire a few hired judges and use the remote camera crew that currently have no other events to cover and you have many hours of a cheap talent show. On the other hand Firefly had 9 highly paid main actors and two star script writers and directors. They required a lot of different props to be made, performed stunts, pyrotechnics and utilized CGI in every episode. For the cost of making another season of Firefly to entertain the browncoats they instead made ten seasons of a silly game show that were watched by bored people who could not find anything better to watch which is a larger group. 4 things: 1. Ratings - How many people in the general Nielson Ratings Population watches it. 2. Cost to produce - How cheap it is to make an episode. 3. Number of episodes - Once you get over 88 episodes you might get syndicated. So if you are close, they might let you get another season to round it out. 4. Network Branding - Does the show align with what the current CEO/President's vision of what they want their network to be known for. Ideally a show hits all of these. Good ratings, Cheap to make, Enough episodes for that sweet syndication money, and aligned with the CEO/President's vision. BUT if you are really strong in 2 of them you can survive. Firefly didn't check these boxes. It is a niche show (low Nielsen ratings), Expensive to product (Especially compared to reality tv), Wasn't even CLOSE to getting syndicated. What it DID have going for it was that the President actually loved the show. Which is why it even got a shot. edit: Math All about them ratings. Sure those shows carved out their niches, but the average viewer (people who think big bang theory is funny) didnt care for it. Just because you think they are good shows does not mean the general population does.... thought this was kind of obvious or were you just trying to vent? Futurama did switch networks, multiple times. Ultimately they all decided that the ratings weren't good enough to justify the continued investment in producing new episodes. Networks are in the business of making money, not producing good shows. Sometimes they can do both, but not often. Some others have given good examples, but I'd like to add one: *Sometimes* the actors (or voice actors) are ready to move on to other things. If enough of the key actors feel that way, it could be difficult to keep the show going. Imagine if Billy West had said "Yeah, I'm really sick of doing the voices on Futurama". It would be super hard to replace him. What is a bad show? To a television network, a bad show is one that doesn't bring in enough money. Firefly and Futurama had intense following from a small group of people. Reality TV has a range of intensity of viewers (from those who want to be *like* the stars, to those who watch it just to mock it), but from a massive amount of viewers. That makes more money. Plus, it's super simple and cheap to make Reality TV shows vs shows with special effects or animation. How good a show is doesn't really matter. What matters is how many people watch it. You don't even need the people watching the show to actively *like* it. A studio will take a million people saying "Meh, this is fine, nothing else is on" over 100,000 people saying "Oh man, I can't wait, 5 more minutes to the premier of season 2". This is why you get so much lowest common denominator TV, especially on the networks. It's about broad appeal. Doesn't have to be a STRONG appeal... just has to be good enough to get you to stick. Everything's been already said but I just want to add that what you may consider 'good' or 'bad' doesn't necessarily reflect others' opinions and is completely subjective. That actually comes as pretty snobbish without you actually knowing it.
No. You wouldn't be saved from eating immediately before. Your body needs to metabolize the food into your blood which isn't instant. Not only that, if you're on the brink of starvation, then your digestive system wouldn't be functioning ideally; after all, starving to death takes typically over a month (assuming you're hydrated) and in the last week or so your organs would be damaged and shutting down, plus you're barely producing stomach acid to digest anyway. To add even more on top of that, there's refeeding syndrome which involves a number of pretty shitty disorders. Essentially though, from my understanding, during starvation, your body uses up it's resources and switches to consuming your fatty acids to conserve red blood cells. When refeeding occurs, the body tries to pump out more red blood cells, but the resources used to make those normally are used up, so some compound builds in the liver and skeleton which uses up ATP in red blood cells causing the red blood cells to not work properly and they don't deliver enough oxygen around your body. There are also other things that happen, but I'm not sure about them. Often times, when faced with emancipated, emaciated WW2 captives, allied soldiers were told not to give any food to the emaciated captives and to keep them away from finding food as it could literally kill them because of refeeding syndrome. Depends on circumstances and type of food. Look at the holocaust victims, they were literally starving to death and if you allow them small bits of food and sips of water their body can handle it and slowly get better. Some still died of starvation even after being rescued. This is very circumstantial. my grandfather told me that starved people who got to eat food the first time for a really long time in american camps(after they got captured) died because they ate too much and their bodies could not handle the food. he said the food they ate was too heavy and they got diarrhea and died because of that. he also said starving isnt really that bad after a couple of days. your intestines shut down and it takes a while to get used to food again. he had some interesting anectotes. one is that americans eat more pepper and less salt than germans. they had tons of pepper left over but salt was always rare. Short answer: Standard practice when rescuing starving people is to give small amounts of food in order to prevent refeeding syndrome. It depends on your condition and the type and amount of food you have. Long answer: With adequate food, the body primarily uses glucose for energy, but the body can't store as much glucose as it can protein and fat. Trouble is, the brain can't use fatty acids for energy, so the body produces ketone bodies to help replace the glucose you aren't eating. This process, called ketosis, releases acid into the body. If you undergo ketosis for long enough to starve, then ketoacidosis, a deadly acidification of the the blood, may occur. If you can't get treated for severe acidification, then it doesn't matter what you eat. You'll die (interestingly, this is why untreated Type I diabetes is also extremely dangerous). But let's say your blood hasn't turned to acid before your rescue. Ketosis changes the metabolic environment of the body in other ways, but the body would prefer to metabolize food normally. If you eat a load of food, then the body will immediately shift to the normal mode of metabolism, and that shift is what causes refeeding syndrome. Several days of limited intake helps "prime" the body for regular metabolism and slows down the shift from ketosis to normal metabolism. If your "last moment" means that you have no more stored calories, then the shift from no food to enough food for you to live would probably kill you. If your "last moment" means that you have just enough stored calories to maintain your life until you can finish the metabolic shift, then it might save you. At the very last moment, no. The blood stream takes time to absorb food, so you would have to eat a good while before you would die. There's also the risk of refeeding syndrome, so even if it wasn't the last minute you might die anyway. Another issue I haven't seen mentioned on here yet is something called "refeeding syndrome." It's something that happens when you haven't eaten for weeks. The influx of glucose and other nutrients into your system cranks up hormones that had been essentially shut down, especially insulin. The sudden change causes a massive shift and depletion of electrolytes like phosphorous and magnesium among others. It's so bad it can send you into heart failure. That's why if you're admitted to the hospital due to starvation, they reintroduce food very slowly with a close eye on your electrolytes. tl;dr Refeeding syndrome is more likely to kill you after reintroducing food than anything else Look up how anorexics are rehabilitated. It really depends on how your body would react. Food/drink would have to be introduced slowly, gradually building back up to a normal diet. You could still die, it would all depend on how badly your organs were damaged from the deprivation. It depends, are you asking if, "when you're about to starve to death, you eat", or , "if you're about to starve to death, you see a bit of food." If it's the former, I saw a few other comments saying no, if it's the latter, I didn't really see any answers for it, but no, you definitely can't chain seeing different foods into being immortal, gavin. Can't tell if you mean eaten then or there, or just seeing it will prolong your dying body. So what would be an ideal food to give to someone on the brink of starvation? Small pieces of bread maybe? I know most comments are about the nutritional content of the food and they are right, but speaking from a psychological point of view, you might just get the will to survive because you see food. Read more of it on victor frankl's man's search for meaning and it's sequels. He was a psychiatrist and a holocaust survivor (in the order). He came up with logotherapy. Sugar, will entre the blood very quickly. Your not specific as to the specific time of your last moment. Starving can take weeks for you body to exhaust the last of its fuel sources to power the heart. Is this last moment you describe 60 seconds before you heart stops or an hour. My guess is you would have a ten minute to 30 minute window for sugars to get into the blood and be useful.
It could stay hidden from direct observation from Earth, but it would be easy to detect with indirect methods. For example, its gravitational effects on other planets, asteroids, comets, and spacecraft would be immediately obvious. No. The solar system started to be discovered by direct observations but then we started to map everything out and calculate gravity and the effect on other bodies to predict solar eclipses and when we would be able to see other planets. We might no be able to see the hidden planet, but we would be able to see the effect of gravity on everything else in the solar system.
The cost of crude is only about 65-75% of what goes into the cost of gasoline (in the US). The rest is from refining, transporting, marketing and taxes. Since the rests of those costs haven't changed (much), just decreasing the cost of crude will only decrease the price of gas by about 2/3rd that amount. Gasoline is a bit scarcer than wholesale crude oil, because it has to go through refineries, and then get distributed, and then get sold at retail outlets. Even if crude oil is plentiful, any bottleneck in the refining or distribution system can drive up the price of gasoline. And when the price of crude oil falls, it takes some time for competition to force the price of retail gasoline down. Generally no one wants to be the first to slash prices, when everyone's making a nice profit. The cost of oil is but one cost of producing gas. The price you pay for gas also covers labor, electricity, distribution, transportation, real estate, marketing, taxes, etc. Even though the cost of oil is a significant portion of the price of gas, it's not the only expense. A percentage reduction in the cost of oil will not produce an equal percentage reduction in the price of gas. There are three mostly fixed costs with regard to gasoline: * refining, about 60 cents a gallon * marketing and distribution, about 20 cents a gallon * taxes, up to 50 cents a gallon in the US That gives you floor of about $1.30 a gallon. That means when the price at the pump falls from $3 to $2, the part depending on oil prices is falling from $1.70 to $0.70 in the states with the highest tax rates, more than a 50% reduction.
The pound sign, £, is a stylized capital letter "L". It stands for "Libra", which is Latin for "pound", in the sense of weight. The British pound [in sense of currency] used to be defined as a pound [in the sense of weight] of sterling silver. Hence why the British currency is often referred to as Sterling. URL_1 > Inspiration for the € symbol itself came from the Greek epsilon (ϵ) – a reference to the cradle of European civilization – and the first letter of the word Europe, crossed by two parallel lines to ‘certify’ the stability of the euro. URL_0 > The best documented explanation holds that the sign evolved out of the Spanish and Spanish American scribal abbreviation "pˢ" for pesos. A study of late eighteenth- and early nineteenth-century manuscripts shows that the s gradually came to be written over the p, developing into a close equivalent to the "$" mark.[3][4][5][6][7] A variation, though less plausible, of this hypothesis derives the sign from a combination of the Greek character "psi" (ψ) and "S".[8] (there are various other hypotheses in the same link) The dollar sign has been around so long that it's origin is no longer known with any certainty. Two leading derivations are that it is an overlay of P and S, an abbreviation of the Spanish Peso, eventually losing the loop of the P. Another is that it is an overlay of U and S for United States, with the U becoming narrow and eventually losing the loop at the bottom. The first uses of what is now the 'dollar sign' cleraly referred to the Spanish Peso, lending credence to the first derivation. This slides explains the design considerations and meaning behind the not so long ago introduced Indian currency symbol. Rupees URL_0 Well, the South African Rand is a R, so that seems quite self explanatory. The band itself comes from the area where most of the gold was mined at the time, the Witwatersrand (White Waters Ridge).
A bicameral legislature is a system in which two bodies are responsible for making laws. Both bodies must agree on and pass a bill before it can be signed by the PM/president/whatever and become a law. The United States is an example of a bicameral legislature. The two bodies that make up our congress are the Senate and House of Representatives. The Senate is composed of 100 senators--2 from each of the 50 states. The House of Representatives is composed of 435 reps, with the number of representatives from each state being decided based on the population of that state, but each state is guaranteed at least 1 representative. California is currently the most populous state so it has the most representatives. The purpose of doing this, at least in the US, is to try and strike a balance between the lawmaking power of highly and sparsely populated states. If we only had the HoR, then a few states where a lot of people live could dictate law to a larger number of states where fewer people live. If we only had the senate, then more populous states would have less voting power per citizen because each state has the same number of votes. Both of these situations are undesirable if your goal is to provide for as equal of representation as possible in the federal government, so we have both as a compromise.
Sound is not just a vibration through air, it's a vibration through anything with mass. The air inside the room will vibrate then the vibration will hit the walls/doors and cause them to vibrate too - the vibration propagates through the solids that make the walls/doors and then passes on to vibrate the air outside the room. The only way it couldn't is if the airtight room were a vacuum inside, then, if the sound source can't vibrate a wall/door, it wouldn't have any air to vibrate and sound would not be made in the first place to propagate through the air/solids. The vibrating air causes the walls to vibrate which in turn cause the outside air to vibrate. Thus, sound.
Well, if there's someone who speaks it, with lots of pointing and experimentation. If it's just written, you use the same process we use today, just by hand. Statistical analysis, educated guessing, checking against other known languages, looking for a Rosetta Stone style cheat sheet. Technology, for the most part, basically speeds up certain processes; people used the same techniques they use today, but they took longer. There are very few languages and scripts that are totally unrelated to existing languages and scripts, so linguists usually have some reference to work with. When there isn't one, it's a case of looking for patterns. If you have a nice, large text in an unknown language, you can start looking for how different signs are put together. A Martian trying to decipher English, for example, will notice that there over 50 different signs organized in small groups; some of those signs often appear at the beginning of a group, others only at the end (we're talking about capital letters and punctuation marks); that some groups of signs like "the" and "to" are very common and probably serve some grammatical purpose; and so on. It's slow, painstaking work that can take decades, and some languages -- even with today's technology -- remain undeciphered. The Rosetta Stone is a famous block of stone that allowed linguists to finally decipher Egyptian hieroglyphics. Hieroglyphics were used by the Egyptians only for very special inscriptions: usually, they used a script called "Demotic". But nobody could agree on how to decipher hieroglyphics: did a hieroglyph represent a word or a sound, for example? The breakthrough was the discovery of the Rosetta Stone, which had three texts inscribed on it: one in hieroglyphs, one in Demotic and one in Greek. Historians were able to read the Greek, which, among other things, said that the stone had the same text in three languages, so now they knew the three texts said the same thing. But still, hieroglyphs were taking a long time to "crack". One person noticed that some of the hieroglyphs were grouped together and surrounded by a sort of bubble shape (called a "cartouche"), and he guessed that they were names. He found a cartouche which included two signs he already knew represented the sound "s", and it also included a sign that looked like a representation of a sun. He knew of another language from the region where the word for "sun" is "ra", and realized he was looking at the name Ramses -- and *that* was the way in to finally decipher the hieroglyphs. Technology can't actually do the work on its own -- it needs the input of human imagination -- but it does make things like statistical analysis (very useful for deciphering languages) much easier and faster.
There are many levels of consciousness (or unconsciousness) from fully awake to daydreaming to no self-awareness. Depending on what is causing it, you can be alive, but brain function is minimal and you feel and know nothing. People rarely recover from this state. A medical coma is one where the brain is at a level where it does not dream, like anesthesia. People often recover from these states and described as being awake one moment and awakening the next. I've had general anesthesia and that's what it feels like. A little slab of death.
Assuming by "asleep" you mean the prickly / tingly feeling, that's actually your nerve being cut off and your brain partially losing connection to the nerve endings in that limb. Next time it happens, poke the limb with your hand. You'll notice the sense of touch in the sleeping limb is muted or sometimes even gone entirely. Long term, this isn't very likely to cause any harm - if you've ever woken up in an odd position and lose all feeling and control over one arm or something, it's the same thing, pinching off a nerve, but you held that position possibly for hours because you were asleep. Now as for actually pinching off the flow of blood, that can definitely do damage. I think some cells in your body don't need oxygen, but most of them do, including muscles and skin, which are literally everywhere in or on your body. So if you pinch the blood off of a limb, all the cells that need oxygen would starve and eventually die. I don't know exactly how long it would take but considering it only takes a few minutes of oxygen deprivation for permanent brain damage to be likely, it would probably be measured in minutes. Check out "Saturday Night Palsy". This can happen if you fall asleep with your arm over a chair and don't move it through the night. So the nerve running down your arm is squeezed for a long time. Imagine a frayed telephone cord- the message isn't traveling from your brain to your hand (muscle control) or from your hand to your brain (sensory) This can cause loss of feeling, loss of movement, or hand deformities from muscle wasting as the nerve can't feel messages from your hand and can't communicate messages to the muscles in your hand. There's a sheath around nerves and then the nerve itself, depending on how damaged the sheath is or if damage is done to the nerve itself you can have different degrees of damage. Recovery time depends on the level of damage. Recovery of 6-8 weeks: neuropraxia. Recovery of several months: axonotmesis. Nope: neurotmesis. Edit: I think the lack of blood flow causes damage from cell death Hard to ELI5 this, but here we go: Many things happen when your nerves are starved for oxygen and none of them are good and it gets worse the more starved they are. This happens when their blood flow is interrupted. 'falling asleep' is the lowest thing on this list and is the most neutral for your nerves - its not painful and goes away in seconds to minutes. The nerves recover quickly and go about their business. Basically the signal they send goes all wonky when they are initially starved and then get oxygen again when pressure is released (sensory - signal going up to brain). They are also hard to move (motor - signal going down to limb). more severely, we have [neuropathy]( URL_0 ) which has symptoms similar to 'falling asleep' but can become permanent and hurt more than 'falling asleep'. If starvation is nearly complete and goes for a long time, the nerves can die (actually the starved, and therefore damaged, axons of the neurons degenerate - the neuron cell bodies themselves survive in all but the worst cases) which can take months to repair in a good case or never in a really bad case. This entire process is an active area of research. to answer the second part: hours to days depending on how complete the constriction is Fell asleep on my arm on a plane, compressed the nerve and had a floppy wrist for the next 5 months, can confirm 'the stranger' was the most commonly used joke haha. Depends on how long the nerve is compressed. For example, Saturday night palsy is from falling asleep with your nerve compressed. Effects can last for weeks to months if you're unlucky. URL_0 has a good article on the issue. In limb surgery, the maximum safe tourniquet time is 2 hours. Most surgeons believe anything longer causes some level of permanent tissue damage in the blood-starved tissue. it's not from a loss of bloodflow. a limb falling asleep is caused by nerve signals being lost to the affected area. on its own, it's harmless. atrophy would occur if it persisted for a truly absurd length of time. far more likely is that the cause of the limb falling asleep has other effects that are far more dangerous. constant pressure to a small area, a joint held in a stressful position, etc. these things can cause damage on their own if they persist for extended periods, regardless of your limb being asleep or not. it's not a lack of blood, it's pinching a nerve and keeping it that way can do permanent harm.
Saluting has a long history that is actually not written in stone. However one explanation is that it was originally used as a greeting between two knights to show their face and thus not be seen as an enemy. Additionally it would take away from their master hand to hold their weapon. This has progressed through to when officers would remove their headgear in the presence of a superior, and then became just a grabbing of the hat. This turned into the modern salute which now has enlisted men salute officers and junior officers saluting superior officers. The salute itself is in recognition of the Commander-in-Chief, for the Commonwealth the salute goes to the Queen, as recognised by the crown on the cap badge. Really though it's just a longheld tradition and the military loves tradition. Many militaries salute primarily as a matter of tradition, honour, or respect for higher ranking officials. Salutes vary greatly from military to military, for historical examples, think the Fascist right arm salute, the bow given in many Eastern cultures, even the variations of the basic salute are many. Chain of command is very important, especially in a hazardous situation. It is critical to know who is supposed to be giving the orders, and who is supposed to be receiving them. Saluting, highly visible rank insignia, and referring to each other by rank reinforces this. Personnel are always aware of the authority structure in any given circumstance, so when someone shouts "we need to get out of here!" they know the difference between a panicking private and a captain ordering a retreat.
See my answer [here]( URL_0 ) and [here]( URL_1 ) France had prepared for the wrong kind of war. Everyone (except Germany) expected a repeat of world war 1, with trench warfare and lumbering armies that measured gains in meters. France had built massive fortifications along the border with Germany and weaker fortifications along the Belgian border to the north, thinking that a massive buildup would offend the Belgians and that forces in the south could easily move to the north as needed since a WW1 style army would take weeks to fight through that terrain. The German blitzkreig invasion stormed through Belgium and the weaker northern section so quickly with a wave of light vehicles and tanks that the forces in the south were cut off before anyone could really get a grasp on the situation.
The proper definition of integers relies on the natural numbers. The natural numbers are defined using the following basic definitions: * 0 is a natural number. * Every natural number x has a single successor S(x). * 0 isn't the successor of any natural number. This automatically defines the set of natural numbers - 0, S(0), S(S(0)), S(S(S(0))) and so on. For convenience, we named them: S(0) is called "1", S(S(0)) is called "2", and so on. Note however that while these "names" depend on which base you use, they are not required for the definition of the natural numbers. The integers can then be constructed from all the natural numbers, again without using any base.
Hello fellow sufferer. Excema is a genetic disorder that is very similar to asthma. The way it was explained to me is that they're very similar in effect. Asthma causes swelling and irritation in the lung tissue, while excema causes the same swelling and irritation in the epidermis (outer layers of skin). The reason that it isn't curable currently is that the problem exists in your DNA, which is copied into every single cell in your body. A therapy to cure it would require rewriting your genetic code in every cell of your body. Such research, called genetic therapy, is in its infancy, and is insanely hard to do, given all of the risks involved.
Your brain basically blocks the word you're trying to think of and floods itself with keywords, trying to make a connection. If you're on the spot bloodflow to your frontal lobes can increase, which restricts your neural pathways. This means you cant make connections as easily and dont know what to say. You freeze or get stage fright.
They're a lot easier for people to remember and to key in. Which are you more likely to do: text "FREEGIFT" to 66066, or text it to 2068794482?
The source of protein or vitamins in supplements is rarely food. In the case of protein, the most common source is [whey]( URL_0 ), which is a byproduct of making cheese. Whey is spray dried to separate the protein from fat. The protein is then flavored and processed for use as a protein supplement. The simpler vitamins like A and C can be directly synthesized in a lab. Vitamin D comes from lanolin which comes from sheep's wool, and vitamin E comes from plant oils. More complex vitamins like B12 are produced by genetically-engineered bacteria.
When you're in fight or flight response and your sympathetic nervous system is activated. Activation of the sympathetic nervous system actually shuts down saliva production, digestion and other rest and digest functions so you can use all your available energy to fight or run away. Some people think the nervous swallow is because saliva was building up before production was shut off, I personally believe it's a nervous reaction like saying 'umm'. It gives you that extra second before you need to respond. I've always seen this in cartoons etc but have never experienced it myself. Is this reaction common?
California originally had 27 counties. New counties were formed out of old ones as populations rose in the years after statehood. With most of Southern California being desert, there weren't many people there to support forming new counties out of the original large counties. The last time a new county was formed in California was 1907, when there were far, far fewer people living in Southern California. When the population boom in the southern part of the state started, advances in transportation and telecommunications meant that it was no longer impractical to manage large counties.
Conifers tend to be triangular because they don't drop their needles and often live in snowy places. The triangle shape holds up best to the added weight. Plus it's efficient in terms of how much energy has be spent on growing a trunk, and again, they live in colder places with less competition. Deciduous trees are rounder because they want to grow up and out to shade out their competition, and they drop leaves so added winter weight is not a problem.
The basic physics stuff is pretty easy, just have to keep track of a few parameters. Location, Velocity, and Acceleration. For the most part interactions can be defined simply setting acceleration. For each simulation cycle start by setting acceleration to zero (nothing happens unless a force is applied). Moving through air, and don't want to simulate drag? Simply don't add anything to the acceleration. Want to include gravity? Add gravity to the acceleration so you fall it's (9.81m/s^2), got a rocket engine pointing up? Add it's acceleration to what you have (-15m/s^2). Are you moving through water and want to simulate drag? It's opposite and exponentially proportional to velocity, so add -velocity^2 \*waterThickness to acceleration. Did you hit a brick wall? Ignore the other forces and reset acceleration to zero, did you hit a bouncy wall? Multiply the acceleration by -1. By adding up all the different accelerations for different reasons you get the net acceleration an object is under. Then calculating everything means figuring out the time step(usually 1/60th of a second) and then determining everything else just velocity=velocity+acceleration\*timeStep; position = position+velocity\*timeStep; In practice you have an acceleration, velocity, and position for each direction (x, y, z), all formulas are done three times for each direction. That gives you three positions (x, y, z), and you give it to the graphics/etc to show it's current position on the screen.
Generally because you are sleeping with your mouth open which dries out the mucous membrane. If you don't believe me, try keeping your mouth wide open and breath in and out for an hour and tell me how your throat feels.
When you are lying or sitting your blood pressure rises slightly due to position. When you stand the pressure drops. Blood can pool in your legs making it unavailable for your brain. If this is happening often you should probably see a doctor. This isn't healthy. It's often caused by low blood pressure or dehydration. In the ER they test your blood pressure lying down, sitting, and then standing and if it changes too much then they do further testing. Usually the take away is you are dehydrated. Source: CMA/PA student/ER volunteer
I think it had to do with the fact that although we can store more information than we actually do, it would cause an overload of information. This would result in a lot of pressure and stress. The information we don't remember is simply not deemed important enough and therefore you won't remember it in order to keep your brain "tidy", efficient, and sane.
What is toast bread? As far as I know there is only bread. Once it's toasted then you have toast. Or are there specific breads that are meant for toasting and I missed the memo. I understand your question. In lots of places in Europe, they have their usual bread, which most of North America would see as fancy bakery bread. It's either a sourdough, a fluffy white loaf or a dark rye. What they call "toast bread" looks what a North American would think of as regular bread. A pre-sliced loaf that comes wrapped up in a plastic bag. Toast bread has a denser structure than the white bread you are used to. Therefore the air pockets are smaller and the cheese can't sink through them. Plus with the denser structure, it can hold the melted cheese better.
[Recent studies suggest that flash isn't as harmful to art as was once believed]( URL_0 ), but the ban likely continues because it's tradition. Other than that, there are other reasons to ban flash. For one, it's a huge distraction to other visitors to constantly have flash going off in galleries. I also find that flash can reflect off artwork, causing glare problems when you look at the photo afterwards.
You would need to add a transmitter to the tv and a repeater on your remote. And costs aside you usually lose your remote quite close to the TV, even though sometimes seems to have been sucked into another dimension.
I think you mean [orthostatic hypotension]( URL_0 ), which is basically just a quick drop in blood pressure while your heart catches up with the sudden need to work a bit harder now that you stood up. For the moment while it catches up, the low blood pressure in your brain can cause experiences close to fainting (dizziness, very brief loss of vision, etc).
Historically, every culture had their own measurements. Over time, we developed organizations to standardize these. Except for one country, everyone in the world uses a single system (metric). Even in the US, many types of commerce are increasingly in metric. There have been attempts to standardize language (Esperanto, for example). As well as historic "lingua francas" (Greek, Persian, Latin, French, English) that at various times become the language of international commerce and academia. However, language has proven to be much more resilient: 1. It's a lot harder to teach people new languages than new measurements 2. Language is tied to nationalism, culture and identity
Interestingly, Netflix has quantified viewer interest. They've found a way to use the staggering amount of information gathered from their viewers over the years to pinpoint story concepts, genres, plot elements, directing and cinematic styles that have the best chance of success among their viewers. All of the star ratings, viewing habits, customer demographics, reviews, binge-watching habits for TV shows (and so, measurements of which TV shows keep your attention for the longest span of time), ALL of these factors have been meticulously collected and studied, and they've resulting in some of the biggest hits on "TV" such as Orange in the New Black, Stranger Things, House of Cards, etc. This doesn't so much answer the question of how they figure how much money each TV shows has made them, but it does give you insight on how they meticulously calculate the financial impact of a TV/movie idea before producing it and releasing it as a Netflix original. Their models have been fairly accurate between projected and actual revenue generated. They also realized that having a well-regarded show led to solid continuing revenue through DVD sales (although that has probably slowed down as streaming has been replacing DVD). Around the early seasons of Game of Thrones, some HBO execs said that if they had had any idea how much money they would make off of DVD, they never would have canceled "Rome," "Deadwood," or "Carnivale." You do a lot of different things to gauge the success of your show, like show the pilot episode to an audience and measure their response, do market research and see what kind of shows people are interested in, what sort of dynamics between characters they're interested in etc. Other than that you simply have to go with your gut feeling. HBO and Netflix do not have the same models, and that is important to understand. Netflix has direct subscribers who pull data (videos and playlist) directly from their servers. By categorizing all content and tracking viewer time in each content, they can know what kinds of things you like. This is the same as amazon being able to suggest things to you based on how you use the website and what you actually buy. HBO, on the other hand, primarily has cable subscribers, where HBO is offered as part of larger packages. Thus, there is an interplay between the cable retailers who bundle and market channels into premium packages, and companies like HBO that actually package the viewing content. That said, HBO, and all TV station, primarily are informed through home surveys, the Neilson ratings. These can be automated or paper, but basically a sample of the public is always being taken and comments on what they like and do not like. HBO also gets some data such as subscription rates and viewer statistics from regional cable companies, but this is nowhere near as detailed or accurate as what Netflix gets. These days, the easiest way for HBO (and most companies without the advantage of netflix) to learn what people really like is to data mine the internet. They hire specialist to spend time on social media, figuring out what is popular, which of their products are popular, and also manipulating the market by being part of the conversation and/or inserting advertising. This strategy works well as the target demographic are more tech savvy. HBO isn't advertising to 70 year olds, and now the average 50 year old can facebook. Still, the use of social media is much more limited in older demographics, so for those, more traditional data collection methods are more appropriate. A show aimed at 40 and younger, internet works very well. HBO doesn't earn money per show, but rather per subscriber. So, a general sense of popularity is accurate enough. HBO also is realizing the power of content generation, which was not where they started. But in generating content, there certainly are risk. When a a show becomes populary, HBO will milk it for all it is worth, generating long running series. This mitigates the risk of creating or showing less popular material. Predicting popularity is key, because your investment into building a show is heavily front laoded. So you do lots of research and testing and run ideas and scripts and sample performances by steadily larger samples. This is generalyl never public (sometimes seen on dvd extra material). In any case, once it is broadcast, the question becomes, is the show as popular with everyone as it was with our test audiences. If not, then they will just air the first few episodes (which are generally all paid for and with mostly sunk expenses by the time any announcement of an upcoming show is made.) If it seems popular (lots of people tuning into HBO, lots of talk on the internet) then they run with it. This is also why shows tend to jump the shark. It is easy to run with positive news, but very difficult to catch drops in interest and correct or end a series. Netflix can more precisely measure interest and so do this a bit better, but they also can simply recommend whatever you like at that day, HBO can not know this. Sometimes, it's not just about the P/L for a specific show, but the idea that they create well regarded programming that make people more likely to subscribe. Even if they specifically don't care for Game of Thrones or House of Cards, the idea that they have high quality programming that may be of interest will cause some to subscribe, others to keep subscribing, etc. In some ways, it's like Ford developing their GT-40 or Chevy making their high end Corvettes... the cost to develop and build in small quantities aren't necessarily profitable in their own right, but the "halo effect" from those enhance the overall brand in the mind of consumers, who might end up buying an Explorer or Malibu. Or subscribe to Netflix for high brow shows like Chef's Table or House of Card but end up binding on Friends reruns Netflix and HBO know how many people watch a given show. Based on that number, they know things like what percentage and how long those people are likely to keep their subscription. They can calculate differences in subscription behavior by people who watch original content and people who don't. They also know their cost of production and the cost of royalties from a show they didn't create. From those sources, they can come up with a very good approximation of the financial success of an original show. The amount of consumer data out for sale/mining is enormous. I work in a similar field where we predict cellphone mobile trends in regards to user consumer preferences and let me tell you, WE KNOW EVERYTHING. The basic concept is; get the data, create segments of users based on applying specific algorithms or queries . Then we run analytics on those particular segments for a given time period to discover trends and return on investments. So an example would be: December was a big month for American sports, We ran a search for all users who are likely to purchase a sports related item during this time period (based on prior sales, team affiliation, Geo location, shopping trends, web trends, time of day purchases are made, and so on..) and send them a friendly remind or promotion. The users we are sending to specifically have a 1-5% (Y) chance to buy an item at X. If the cost of the campaign (Z) is less than X*Y, then we run the campaign. Edit: This all at a very high level. A large % of this process is already automated in order to reduce human error and provide faster response to live data. Keep in mind that they also have direct revenue streams by selling BluRays of the shows, as well as licensing them for overseas distribution, as well as merchandise sales. I am a 20 year TV executive producer... And HBO doesn't really care, per se, about the cost of any one series. Some shows are 'loss leaders' - Take for example, The Garry Shandling Series, Larry Sanders -- which had pretty bad ratings at the time it ran. HOWEVER -- and this is the important part, it was a media and critical darling. It was written about and gushed over -- which is tons of free advertising. The streaming services have a certain amount of churn every month, meaning some % of people drop the service, another % sign up new. They work to either slow the churn or reduce it. If they do research that a % of the audience would like to see a show like "Fuller House" they try and determine what % of their current subs would like it -- and what % of new audience will it bring? The streaming and cable company's also make deals to sell their content down the road -- for sale in European and Latin American markets underserved by streaming and cable. Think about this: HBO has about 40 million US subscribers who pay about 12 bucks a month or 5.7 billion annually grossed. A large % of that money is for content creation. In the years where you get Game of Thrones, you might also get one or two less full new series, and instead, get a bit more documentary programming, or the like, which costs much less to make. I can not impress upon you enough that TV in general cares about PUBLICITY -- so, even a high priced failure, that gets people talking can also be a good investment for them -- For example, HBO did that series about horse racing. Dustin Hoffman was the star. There is a % of people who don't have HBO who signed up to see that series and even though it was cancelled, they stayed subscribers. And lastly, HBO knows that even if they aren't satisfying ALL their subs all the time, people stick with paying for the service because something good will come soon. Also, people are lazy. Really lazy. And it takes a lot of energy to cancel your subscription. And HBO, et al knows this. Some great responses here, but I'll also point out they can look at social media and whatnot, and assign a dollar value to the entries there. I'm pulling some numbers out of my ass, but hopefully they help get the concepts across. For instance, it may be that for every 1000 tweets about the show, then they can assume one person will sign up for the service (or renew, if they had been thinking about lapsing). If 1 million people are talking about the show, then they will make $X amount from subscriptions just for that show. If $X is more than the cost of making the show (or even less, if they think it's worth it) then they can make decisions based on that whether or not the show is worth it. Finally a question I can answer. Short Answer not 100% but they can guess using financial models(predictions using data). Long answer: In every studio there is a finance department that builds models of shows based upon what type of show, who is in it, what it will cost, demographics, and how much revenue generated through xzy merchandise or etc. The show then goes through a vetting processes with the studios to get green lit to get funding. For HBO and Netflix, they have real time data they could use instead of using someone like nelson for ratings information so they can develop shows easier targeting the right groups. Using that information they could build a few more models for Q1, Q2, Q3, and Q4 time frames and figure if the cost from producing one show with the subscriber revenue would be enough. As they're always adding and removing and rotating content, they'll measure what's currently available or not available on its library (or things like what's recently been added or removed) against its current subscriber level (is it increasing or is it slowing down, or is there a big spike?). They'll be able to gauge data such as that to see what is making people sign up, cancel, stay a member for a short time, or stay for longer periods. They test so much stuff that you don't realise. Changing little things like the description or thumbnail image of each movie or show across different users to see which are clicked and viewed most. It's important to note with the subscription model that it's all about keeping customers for as long as possible, as obvious as that sounds. $10 a month for a subscription account doesn't sound like much but it's £120 a year. It's exactly why so many companies, such as Microsoft with its Office suite, or Adobe with their editing suites, have switched to the monthly subscription model. For any company, all new customers take at least a small amount of time, resources or effort to acquire. It might cost Netflix an average of $10 to attract each new subscriber, so they need to get them to sign up for more than the initial month for that to be profitable for them (just basic example numbers). There is a very simple explanation it seems many people aren't picking up on. One of Netflix's major expenses is the $'s they have to pay when people view content. I'm not going to pretent to be intimate with the details, but would assume it works somewhat similar to Spotify in that each view pays out $x based on the contract between the content distributor and Netflix. This is a variable expense, meaning that if User A pays $10 a month and watches 100 episodes of a show that cost netflix $.10 per view they break even on you (and actually lose money when you net down that $10 for credit card processing, physical plant, marketing, payroll). If User A instead watches 50 episodes of content they pay $.10/view for and 50 episodes of Netflix Original Content. They only pay out $5 for the content they didn't produce. So think about it this way, every episode of Netflix Original Content you view is one episode of other content you ARE NOT watching. Meaning they make the $.10 on that view. Aggregate all the people that watched the show, subtract out the fixed cost to make and advertise the show and there is your profit. It also means they can actually assign a Break Even viewership to compare the production and marketing costs to, and can then make an educated decision whether they think this content will hit that viewership. Yes, some will argue if the content is truly compelling it would incentivise people to watch MORE than they originally would have, and I'm sure you could account for this through some behavioral analytics, but I would assume the average person has 2 hours (or whatever the number is) a day to watch programming, regardless of how compelling it is or where it comes from. Especially when you factor in Law of Large Numbers, they can predict the average users time spend watching, and every minute you spend not consuming content they have to pay out per view contributes to their bottom line. In some respects, it's more about future-proofing their business than explicitly making money off their original content in the short-term. Netflix and HBO need to build their libraries of content that they actually own, rather than just license, or in twenty years they'll be entirely obsolete and not worth the subscription fees. Netflix's original business model makes them a middle-man. But major studios are all moving in the direction of offering streaming services. If Disney (Disney, Pixar, Marvel, Lucasfilm, ABC, ESPN... all that and then some under that umbrella) can offer their entire library of content online for a similar subscription fee, they'll have no incentive to license any of it to Netflix, and consequently Netflix's library shrinks. Without original content that Netflix owns, their offerings will dry up. But the more they produce, the more titles they can offer that will never go away due to expiring licensing deals. The amount of data available to these companies is staggering. They have data and analytics experts who are able to draw correlation between these show performance and subscriber metrics and their models are very accurate. That's the ELI-5 - they have experts on these topics and maths :) Note to the kids - you want a good career future and like numbers? Become a data ~~analyst~~ SCIENTIST. It's going to be a huge growth area in the future. The longer answer is that the primary business of HBO and Netflix is to gain and retain subscribers. That's how they make money. The product they sell is content. By looking at BOTH the viewing habits of their millions of subscribers, and the long-term engagement numbers (correlating hours watched, when people lapse, when people are join) they are able to build sophisticated models that can tell them when they are going to loose people, when they have to manage their network for binge-watching, and what *types* of content will retain or gain new customers. They then simply build that into the financial model for the show. They expect that they will spend $$$ dollars producing a new show. They then have models that tell them that show will retain X amount of customers, engage Y amount of existing users, and gain Z amount of new subscribers. They also know precisely what each of these customers is worth. They can calculate the monthly subscription fees, deduct their operations expenses, and have what's called a "CLV" or "Customer Lifetime Value" for each of these audiences. This is a super simple version of how they do it. Just because there aren't commercials doesn't mean they don't get money from companies. There are a number of product placements in their original productions that surely generate profits beyond subscriptions. Coke in Stranger Things, for instance. I was very impressed with Netflix after binge watching Marco Polo. I personally didn't think they would take on a show like this given the nature of the content at hand. A made up tale about Marco Polo's journey through Kublai Khan's court doesn't seem to pull viewers in but they went ahead and did it any ways. Seems to me was a heavy risk. The show did get cancelled after the second season but I felt it was really well done and enjoyed it very much. A shame we wont get to see how things would have played out with him taking over all of the mongol empire. Well, they can measure an increase in subscribers. Let's pretend that HBO had 1,000 subscribers and had been gaining subscribers at a rate of 100/year. So at the end of they year, based on the current trend, they could expect to have roughly 1,100 subscribers. Then they make Got. At the end of that year, they have 2,000 subscribers. The only thing that really changed is that they added GoT, so it would be reasonable to come to the conclusion that GoT is responsible for HBO getting 900 subscribers. Of course, these are simplified numbers. I made them up to prove how a company can measure growth, not to provide an accurate picture of the growth in HBO subscribers due to GoT. One thing a lot of the response I've seen haven't covered is the fact that HBO and Netflix didn't start out producing this huge things like Game of Thrones. They started small and both have cancelled many shows. Now they don't get the same responsiveness as other networks, they can't cancel shows mid-season so there is some higher sunk costs, but both platforms have certainly canceled shows after a season or two. They started with smaller, low budget efforts, saw the response both critically and on their bottom line and then were able to leverage that into larger and larger productions. They can still gauge success and interest in programming they just have higher initial risks as they generally have to produce a whole season at once. It also needs to be noted how you look at Netflix, Showtime, HBO versus NBC or CBS, TBS, FX, etc. Even Amazon is a separate ballgame. Netflix and the like, need subscribers. They're interested in what people are actually watching. The more subscribers they have, the more profit they have. This also can include product tie-ins and placements IN the show. NBC, CBS, FX, etc. need advertisers. They're interested in bringing in advertisers, which is where they make their money. Advertisers hold the cards because they have HUUUUGE budgets, and a lot of demo information that's in sync with the content of a show. Example - People watching The Walking Dead probably like Call of Duty, and vice versa. Amazon is selling their own devices and services. Amazon shut out Apple TV from their site, you can only buy Amazon Fire devices. They want to control the entire chain. They're using the same idea(ish) that Apple had with the App/iTunes store. Use content to drive sales of devices/services. I still think Apple may get into the original content business. Don't forget that each new show they add helps refine their internal model of what people will watch and how they will watch it, which is valuable data by itself. When Netflix sees that I like Archer, they can't tell if I just like animated comedies, comedies with well-known casts, office comedies, spy shows, or some combination of these things and other unknown factors. BUT, when they see that I also liked Arrested Development, they get a much better picture of what kind of show I will watch. From those two data points you can bet that I will enjoy BoJack Horseman, which, like Archer, is an animated comedy with a well-known cast that has a lot of crossover with actors of Arrested Development. If that's the case, then BoJack Horseman was a good bet for Netflix to greenlight. Where it gets more valuable for Netflix, however, is to see the statistics of *how many* people who like both Archer and Arrested Development will like BoJack or turn it off after one episode, or even give it a shot in the first place. That's how they can get a really vivid picture of what segments of an audience exist and, more importantly, how they overlap. Even if the show they add is a complete flop they can analyze why people didn't engage with it and get better and better at figuring out what their subscribers like. It's also about customer retention. Keep making good tuff and customers will not leave to a competitor. There is some guessing and a lot of assuming going on of course but they're getting damn good at learning what people wanna see. Why would you think they have no way to gauge how much money they earn as a result of each show? I am sure they are more sophisticated than this, but simply taking total minutes watched divided by show would give you a pretty great indication of what shows people find valuable. They could also look at the first-to-watch of new subs to find what what shows actually got people to open their account. This is SUPER high level too. I am sure they have very accurate data. With specifics in HBO: HBO doesn't care, directly, if you watch. They care if you subscribe. When I was working in cable customer service, there was a cycle. In March, remind customers that HBO has Game of Thrones. The number of subs skyrocket in March. June, however, HBO sent us stuff about how to retain subs. Basically about the non-GoT stuff. When you have a property that is so hot that you have to base your entire product and marketing strategies around it, you know you have a hit. Kinda easy really. Monthly subscription (s) divided by total minutes watched per account (m) times minutes in episode (t). s / m * t = revenue per episode So if I am paying $10/mo and if I watch 20 TV shows that are 40 min each in a month that is 800 minutes total: 10 / 800 * 40 = $0.50 per episode If they have 1.5 million people watching that show with an average of $0.50 per viewer per episode that is $750,000 per episode. Granted this is greatly simplified in many aspects, but you get the idea. Really, you need to do that calculation for every account and then you can find specifically what people are paying to watch. Yes this are huge calculations on millions of data points, but not dissimilar to what I do at work every day. There was a really good interview with the ceos of all the major channels. Basically they called it brand investment. Saying they only make stuff they think has the chance to be a home run(hbo+netflix). URL_0 You are assuming they have no way of telling who is watching what. As an online digital service this is very easy for them to do. When you know what shows people are subscribing to you to watch, you know which shows are worth investment in order to keep those subscribers. This was touched on in other posts but I wanted to mention it explicitly. Popular shows (and the social media, news and other buzz) are basically advertising for the network. Increasing subscriber base directly (to watch THAT show) but also just getting their name out their more (similar to a McDonalds commercial, even though we all already know about McDonalds) for future growth. I have always felt Netflix relies heavily on a story to make one of their original content Productions. So when I see reviews they are either love it or hate it because they don't have a big name actor or actress to draw you in. They also don't have ridiculous special effects budgets. When someone gets really drawn into one of their shows I feel it reflects on how well it's written and how good the story is and that's why people who like them seem to really like. I'm not sure Netflix produces anything. I think their "originals" are made by a number of different studios who for whatever reason choose not to go the traditional route and pitch their show to a TV network like NBC. My theory is that its cheaper, and perhaps less risky to pitch your show at a distributor like Netflix, rather than NBC, considering the show could fail during primetime on a major network. Then Netflix buys these shows, maybe just one season, as a way to test the waters. In my opinion, if a show flops on Netflix, then its less risk since there isn't really a "primetime" and multiple shows can "air" on Netflix at once. Where as on NBC, if the show sucks, then their numbers go down for a half hour or until a new show comes on. This is how I think it works anyway. Because networks like HBO make money off of Game of Thrones even when people aren't watching it. There's the obvious connection between subscriptions gained when Game of Thrones comes on vs. when Game of Thrones isn't on, but the hidden impact of Game of Thrones is that before and after the show is on you're seeing commercials for other HBO shows. HBO's goal is to get you to see what other content they have, and hope that keeps you subscribing after Game of Thrones goes off the air. Netflix's strategy is a little different. They might not make any direct money from creating, and producing a show, but it's a notch in their library, a library you can only access through NetFlix. So while Orange is the New Black might not get a lot of people to subscribe to Netflix on it's on, if I can watch OITNB, Love, Master of None, Stranger Things, Breaking Bad reruns, etc then it sells itself. It's the opposite of the saying "we're better than the sum of our parts" If Sense8 doesn't show you Netflix knows what people want, nothing will. That is one amazing show. Another point that I haven't seen made yet is HBO and Netflix also make money on the international distribution of their shows. A show on HBO in North America will probably appear on a different channel in the U.K. or in Australia and those other channels will pay HBO a pretty nice fee for those rights. Hey! A question I can actually answer. I worked for a Cable News Network for a while. Companies like HBO and AMC negotiate pay from cable providers like Comcast, AT & T, DirectTV etc.., often for multiple years or even a decade. They have a solid and consistent income stream as a result. This allows them to budget for productions like Game of Thrones or Mad Men. They also are then able to generate additional revenue streams like DVD sales. Nowadays they make money of redistributing their content to Amazon, Netflix, etc... as well as BluRay, DVD, iTunes, Vudu etc... Like for any other content producer, it's impossible to say how many viewers a show will have or how many new customers it will bring in. However, you can look at past trends and see how well the show did. Stats such as how many people signed up around a series/season premier or how many people mainly only watch one show can give you an estimate of how much money that particular show earned for the provider. And if a show like house of cards is successful, Netflix will continue to producing shows as they know there is good money in quality content. Lots of good info here, but if we're going ELI5 the answer is simple: they don't know. Some shows are overwhelmingly successful, and it's obvious that they were ROI positive. Others flop, and it's obvious they weren't. For the rest, they do lots of modeling, statistical analysis, merchandising and advertising experiments, conduct customer research, track viewing habits, etc. to improve their estimates. But they're still estimates. This is true for many business decisions, not just for television production. Because it's so hard to make these sorts of assessments, businesses and individuals that are good at making them have a huge advantage and tend to be very successful. I think the biggest disconnect you are having is your thinking about this on normal business terms. Your thinking people make product X for Y value. They sell X for Z (Z = 1.2*Y). If you don't know how much money you get from selling X then how do you know if it covers the cost. How it is more likely to occur is one year they had A dollars in revenue. They split it some of that to growing the company and one of the ideas was send B amount of A on making our own show which might increase viewers by C. They got C by looking at the meta data they have and predicting what shows they could make and how much they could increase viewers, as another person pointed out. If C*subscription is greater than B than that is an increase in revenue. The ELI5 answer is this: algorithms. Using algorithms, Netflix (for example) can figure out not only what a user watched/watches, but why they watch it, and what else they may be interested in. Netflix's algorithms are so sophisticated that they can extrapolate very precise meaning from they data they collect: they know that there is an audience of 10 million viewers who would be glued to a episode-format TV show with no commercials, a powerful male lead with a powerful female supporting role, tons of 4th wall breaks, dramatic and cerebral, and with love/hate relationships driving the plot. They "predict" that using their algorithms parsing through the user data and then say to themselves "Hey, we can make a TV show like that" and BAM you get House of Cards. That title, as an example, was a winner even before it was released. Orange is the New Black, Stranger Things, Narcos etc. were all similar in that they identified characteristics that keep an audience glued to their TV for 10+ episodes in a row, and went out to go make those shows. HBO, Amazon, & co. all do the same thing, so we end up with shows like Game of Thrones that millions of viewers absolutely adore, because it is catered specifically to the audience. If as a content creator you know your market that well, you can draft up a budget and go out and make the show/movie specifically for your audience. It's to the point now where the content companies know how much each eyeball is worth, and can mathematically model how many eyeballs will be glued to the production. Some good responses down below, but lots of pure conjecture too. I'll say what nobody else is saying: that Netflix actually isn't viable based on current factors. They are spending absurd amounts of money on content right now, which can't continue forever. And their past content deals were inked at low rates which the content owners won't agree to at renewal. That's why you've seen such huge amounts of content simply disappear from Netflix, and why you've seen them lose out on content to other streamers like Hulu and Amazon. And now that they're perceived as rich and successful, the content owners will demand richer payments. Netflix has used funny accounting to claim "profit', but at $7.99 there was only losses. They will have to pass along several rounds of price increases and hope not to lose too many customers if they are to be long-term sustainable. Another factor is that since Netflix is now being perceived as a big profitable monster, everyone will want to make them pay. Netflix free rides on ISP infrastructure. The customer only sees their $8 Netflix payment and doesn't realize the $30 mandatory portion that goes to the ISP for delivery of Netflix. One way or another, Netflix will have to begin assuming those bandwidth costs, since they gobble up huge portions of every ISP's bandwidth. Not only that, but Netflix being seen as the replacement of TV will attract hungry regulators and governments. Those parties live on the avails of cable taxes and fees, and they will find a way to replace their lost revenue with something from Netflix, and that *will* be passed on to subscribers. Additionally, Netflix future plans all assume massive foreign growth now that they've saturated their domestic market. And initial indications are that Netflix isn't as addictive in other countries. If explosive growth guesses come true, they can keep the artificially low prices going for awhile. But when growth stops, the true cost of supplying TV streams will start to kick in. I work in process development, but I also spend a lot of time in quantifying ROI, etc. and I was thinking about this exact question the other day. Here's the conclusion I came to. Some comments here touch the way Netflix uses analytics to figure out what kind of shows will be popular. So they can be pretty sure that the investment will be sound in that sense. Now that they know that, I think the question becomes: How many shows and how much content should they invest in before they reach some kind of diminishing returns? That's the hard question in my opinion. I mean they will get some income from merchandise and probably a hefty sum from other platforms they rent rights to, DVDs, etc. I don't know the business so I can't say how big a slice of the investment they can cover with that. What I'm most impressed is, is that the rest is actual proper leadership. It's vision and belief in that vision. It's what separates really succesful companies from the rest. Depending on the field you can calculate things up to a degree, but sometimes you just need vision and belief when you can't mathematically figure everything out. In my opinion they are probably considering at least these points: -By creating a lot of high quality shows they don't only gain customers, but they also retain them. Retention is really important, and it doesn't only mean that they retain revenue - it also sometimes (not always!) means their competitors don't gain revenue. So it's kind of a double whammy in that sense -By producing their own shows they don't have to buy shows, which makes the investment neutral instead of giving money out to direct or indirect competition -The more shows they produce the better their analytics knowledge becomes. They can experiment, tune their algorithms etc. so the investment is not only in a single show - every show they invest in increases the quality of every show after that. So they have belief in their system and they are willing to also indirectly invest in developing the system even further A lot of this is indirect benefit, so again, it's a matter of vision and belief (strategy) and not just being really good at calculating stuff (which they probably are too). Lots of people are explaining things in a general sense. I'm not sure how many people actually work in the industry or in accounting or finance. As an accountant, I'll point you directly to where you can find this information : URL_0 namely, the following disclosures in the notes to the financial statements : > For productions we capitalize costs associated with the production, including development cost and direct costs. We include these amounts in “Non-current content assets, net” on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Participations and residuals are expensed in line with the amortization of production costs. Based on factors including historical and estimated viewing patterns, we amortize the content assets (licensed and produced) in “Cost of revenues” on the Consolidated Statements of Operations, over the shorter of each title’s contractual window of availability or estimated period of use, beginning with the month of first availability. The amortization period typically ranges from six months to five years. Revenue is top line. It's all subscriptions. They're not (currently) in the business of licensing their content elsewhere. They build good content, subscriptions increase, people maintain those subscriptions, and keep watching. That's the Revenue side of the equation. The cost side of the equation is a bit more tricky. All of those costs are not immediately expensed because of the matching prinicple in accounting. In short, they're allocating costs over the "useful life" of the production. Based on performance and historical views, as well as data gathered on current membership, they assign a production a "useful life". For example, if people are watching tons of stranger things, and their data tells them there are even more subscribers expected to watch it based on their preferences, they would expect Stranger things to get X number of viewers over Y period of time. Over Y (let's say 5 years) period of time, they take the entire costs of production (let's say $20 Million for arugment's sake) and allocate $4M of costs per year. They can't necessarily match directly subscriptions as a result of one particular show. They can however make accurate estimates of the uesful life. They can also make accurate projections of revenue based on new subscriptions, subscription retention, and expected cancellations based on historical data. This gives them all of the useful data they need to know how much one show is making them. **TL/DR** They can easily tell if it is worth producing their own shows. They cannot gauge exactly how much money one show will earn before it runs, but they can gauge exactly how many times people watched a show, how many new subcriptions watched particular shows, and how long they expect those shows to run. They can, if they want, assign those views a dollar value based on activity. The most certainly have thresholds for profitability considering both # of views produced and the cost of the show. More likely, because the data would not be worth crunching, they are keeping things at a higher strategic level decision making process - They produce a show like stranger things, they see increases in subscriptions and tons of people watching the show. The $$ is worth it. They produce a show that doesn't do well, and it's probably not worth continuing. They also probably don't want to (though I haven't read the financials aside from the except) start licensing because they could start losing subscriptions to other services that also play their hit shows.
> but the pressure of the entire Earth compressing the core isn't enough to explain the heat. Constant pressure doesn't cause an increase in heat either, so you are correct the pressure is irrelevant. The kinetic energy of the formation would have resulted in a lot of heat too but it would have cooled long ago. The core is molten primarily because of radioactive decay of heavy elements within the core. They are far more diffuse than in a nuclear reactor but the heat adds up. I don't believe a solid iron-nickel ball roughly the size of the Moon and under immense pressure qualifies as an ideal gas, so IGL isn't correct unless you're just talking conceptually. Earth's core is indeed hot in part because of pressure, as is Mars' core ("cold" in this context is still hot enough such that Mars has an entirely molten core). In addition, Earth's inner regions are pretty well insulated from outer space, so its going to take a really long time until the core cools, and there are some mild nuclear reactions in the Earth's core that provide additional heat.
Hacking generally means using a computer to gain unauthorized access to data in a system. So anything where you steal files from someone's computer is hacking. In most cases when people hack passwords from a database, they steal what are called the hashed passwords. To understand what that means, you have to know what a hash function is. A hash function is an algorithm that takes input and gives output in such a way that it is very difficult if not impossible to figure out the input from output. So you put something like "password123" into a hash function and you get out something like "0086 AC73 249E 7845." Every time you put "password123" into the function, you get that same output. However, the operation doesn't reverse. So you can't use "0086 AC73 249E 7845" to figure out that the original password was password123. Websites typically used hashed passwords for security. This means when you initially submit your password, the website hashes it and saves the output. It never saves your actual password. Every time you log in, it runs the hash function again and compares output. Those lists of outputs are what hackers are able to steal. Breaking into a database and getting that list is hacking. Now that a hacker has a huge list of hashed password, the guessing comes in. The hacker can't reverse any of the hashed passwords to see what the originals were, but what he can do is feed common passwords into the function and see if he finds any matches. Hackers know common passwords (things like "password" "123456" and "asdf") and will test those out first. So in our example, the hacker may put "password" into the hash and get out a string of characters that don't match aynthing. He may then try "password123" and get the string "0086 AC73 249E 7845". That matches the hashed password next to your username in his list, so now he knows what your password is because he guessed it and got confirmation. tl;dr - Hackers have to first guess passwords to see what they look like hashed and then match that to the lists of passwords they steal.
First off, the incompleteness theorems have absolutely nothing to do with a "theory of everything". A ToE is an idea in physics, something that can explain all physical phenomena within the bounds of a single theory. Goedel's incompleteness theorems are entirely mathematical/logical in nature, and do not argue against (or for) the existence of a ToE. A *mathematical* theory is different than a theory in physics. In mathematics, a theory is a collection of axioms, which are the basic assumptions that you make in order to prove other things. In a theory of arithmetic, you might have axioms like "0 is a natural number", "for all natural numbers n, n+0 = n", and so on. Theories can prove various statements using only the axioms and formal logical reasoning. Various fields of mathematics use different theories to discover properties about different mathematical structures. Mathematical logic studies the properties of theories themselves. There are two properties in particular that are very nice for theories to have: * Completeness: for any given statement, the theory can either prove the statement or prove the negation of that statement (or both). * Consistency: for any given statement, the theory cannot both prove the statement and also prove the negation of that statement. For example, a theory which could prove literally any statement about arithmetic ("1+1 = 2", "1+1 = 3", "0 is a natural number", "0 is not a natural number", etc.) would certainly be complete, but it would be inconsistent (and not very useful). On the other hand, if the theory could prove absolutely nothing about natural numbers, it would be consistent (no contradictions arise when you can't prove anything) but it would also not be very useful because it's extremely incomplete. Ideally we'd want a theory of arithmetic which is both complete and consistent. In such a system, we could choose any possible statement about the natural numbers, and the theory could either prove or disprove that statement (but not both). What Goedel's first incompleteness theorem shows is that for a very broad class of theories, it is impossible to fulfill both of these properties. Specifically, the theorem applies to any theory which is recursively enumerable (you could write a computer program that lists all the axioms) and which is capable of talking about arithmetic. Both of these conditions are necessary. It is valid to define the theory of true arithmetic, where the axioms are all true statements about the natural numbers. This must be both complete and consistent, but it's not recursively enumerable because no algorithm could possibly tell you what all the axioms are. On the other hand, there are theories like Tarski's axioms for geometry, which manage to be both complete and consistent but which are incapable of describing arithmetic. Goedel's second incompleteness theorem takes this a step farther. Goedel showed that any theory which could be used to prove its own consistency must actually be inconsistent. Remember than an inconsistent system contains mutually contradictory proofs by definition, so it shouldn't be too surprising that inconsistent systems can "prove" their own consistency in addition to proving their own inconsistency. The more surprising part is that theories which *are* consistent can't possibly prove that they have this property. This, once again, foiled the hopes that some mathematicians had for formulating a foundation for mathematics which could prove its own validity. Most mathematical theories used today are assumed to be consistent but incomplete. That said, because of the second incompleteness theorem they cannot prove their own consistency. You can use stronger theories to prove weaker ones; for example, the ZFC axioms of set theory can prove the consistency of the Peano axioms of arithmetic. However, it is always theoretically possible (but unlikely) that these stronger theories have some inconsistency buried in them, and that these consistency proofs are therefore invalid. The lack of completeness is less of an issue, since unprovable statements are less bad for a theory than contradictory proofs. There are some statements known to be unprovable in ZFC and other theories, but if necessary we can always add in new axioms to resolve them one way or another.
They weren't confident of WMD in Iraq. The administration goons pushing for war were knowingly lying. First of all, the intelligence analysts looking at American cyber-security and those looking at international weapons capabilities are students of different specialties. Secondly, the Bush Administration pushed the intelligence that supported their predisposition for the war, and didn't feature at all the deep division in the intelligence community at the time, and the dissenting voices were effectively ignored. Including UN weapons inspectors. Thirdly, since then reforms have been enacted. URL_0
Most TV commercials are about creating and reinforcing a brand. Quick question: off the top of your head, when you think of NFL football, which beer comes to mind? If you live in the US, chances are you answered "Bud Light". And that's because TV advertising works. It doesn't necessarily mean you are going to go out and buy a case of Bud Light right away, but next time you're in the liquor store staring a fridge full of cases of beers, you will "know" something about Bud Light, as opposed to the 30 other beer brands you've never heard of. And that "knowledge" might influence you to buy Bud Light, because hey, you like NFL football, and it's the official beer of NFL football. TV ads work because we as human beings simply don't have the time or inclination to exhaustively research every single thing we spend money on every day. We make the vast majority of decisions based on what we "know", not really caring how we got that information, or taking the time to judge its relevance or verify its accuracy. Hello I'm an advertising guy. Most of the replies in this thread are not incorrect, but seem to lack knowledge deeper than "because of the brand". Start by understanding that advertising is a huge, huge world. In that huge, huge world, you have lots of different 'methods' of advertising. Each type of advertisement will be seen by different people, at different times, will promote different products and will take different forms. For instance, your advertisement can appear in a magazine, a newspaper, on a webpage, on a flyer, on the radio, on a billboard, or on the television. Let's assume it's 7pm on a Monday, in a country with a population of 100. 2 of those people will be reading magazines. 3 will be reading newspapers. 10 will be on the internet. 8 will be outside. 1 is listening to the radio. 9 people are not exposed to any type of media. But a whopping 67 people are all watching television! Your advert can appear in any of the media I just mentioned. But you need to consider the question, 'why am I advertising in this instance?' Are you trying to get people to buy direct from you, there and then? Or are you looking for exposure – for instance, because you're launching a new product? In the first instance, your advert will be considered "direct response". Think of an ad you see in the newspaper that has a coupon attached to it. "20% off with this voucher!" You take it to a store, buy a product, and now the store knows that you bought a product after seeing an ad in a magazine. It's instant feedback. Direct response isn't just print, mind you: ever see a TV ad that tells you to ring a phone number? How about an email that takes you straight to an online store? These are all forms of direct response marketing. In the second instance, the ad is classified as "ATL", which stands for above the line (direct response is sometimes called below the line; the two definitions are hard to stick to, however, because some ATL advertising can also be direct response, and some BTL may use ATL tactics). You're not looking for quick sales, probably because you're already an established and trusted brand, but you do want to uplift sales – perhaps you're approaching the end of this quarter and you need a sharp uplift in sales to meet your forecast. Or something like that. Now, let's assume your product is what's classified as an FMCG, which stands for "fast moving consumer goods" – basically anything you buy off the supermarket shelves. Soft drinks, packets of crisps, fruit and vegetables, dairy and laundry detergents, as well as some pieces of hardware, furniture, and electronics. You don't care who buys your stuff, because there isn't a specific audience. Everyone drinks soft drinks. Everyone sits on sofas. Everyone uses toothpaste. So, at 7pm on a Monday, when you can assume almost everyone in your country of 100 people will be at home, in front of the TV, after a long day's work, that's the best time for you to advertise. You're just letting people know you're there. But in the week after you've played your TV advertisement, 99% of people in your country will have visited a supermarket or mini-mart. Some of them will want soft drinks. Some of them will want toothpaste. And when they stumble across your product on the shelves, the brand exposure they have already experienced is enough to increase their odds of purchasing your product – and that's a fact. It's not guaranteed, of course. Your competitors might have run an ad campaign themselves. Or they may have a product next to yours on the shelves that is lower in price. They may even have advertising in the store, which we call POS (point of sale advertising). Such is the wonderful world of marketing. So, I guess, TL:DR is: you may not pay attention to advertisements, but many other people do. And even if they're not asking you to buy there and then, TV advertising is proven to make you more likely to buy in the long-term. Every person thinks that advertising doesn't work. On him / her especially. It works though. On all of us. Except me. Let's say that you were shopping at the supermarket one day and you decided you were going to buy some laundry detergent. For the sake of simplicity let's also say that in the laundry goods aisle there were only two product brands to choose from: Soapy Suds, and Sunshine detergent. Now let's assume that at this point you had NEVER even heard of Soapy Suds before. You know almost nothing about the product except that it's laundry detergent because it states so on the product label, and besides that it's in the laundry detergent section of the store. However, while you also know little about Sunshine detergent let's assume that you have actually heard several commercials on the television talking about how great the product is. So you've at least HEARD of that product before, if only in passing. Faced between purchasing a product you had never heard of before, and purchasing a product that you had (even perhaps a semblance of a passing notion of) it would be human nature to choose the one you had heard of before over the one you knew nothing about. This is the essence (highly oversimplified) of the power of brand recognition. Car adverts aren't to make you go out and buy a car that very same day. They're placed to make you aware that the Volkswagen Jetta is a thing. So that when you decide it is time for a new car, the Jetta might come to mind before the Chevrolet Malibu. Some adverts are intended to induce rapid buying. Often these are placed by stores. An example would be a grocery store saying "bananas just 39c a pound, fresh Illinois watermelon just $2.99 each, now through Sunday at Food Lion" I'd like to say it doesn't work, but I know I picked my plumber based on adverts. There's probably other things that don't immediately come to mind. Look at Coke and Pepsi. Is there anyone on earth who doesn't know what they are? They have both had saturation advertising campaigns going on for 100 years. They ran out of things to say about the product a long, long time ago. Then they ran out of things to say entirely. They were down to slogans like "Uh Huh" and "Coke is it" (were they playing tag?) If they stopped advertising people would stop buying their products. They have tried scaling back the ads to save money but every time they do sales drop off. You may not buy that particular product, but you may recongise the brand when shopping down the road. Example when I google search an item, I would trust the sites ive heard of before With popular and powerful brands, there's a whole lot of psychologies that come into play. There's brand loyalty (Oh, you don't like Bud? What do you like, some faggy craft beer? You think you're better than me or something?) and sheer saturation (Brand X? I dunno, never tried it, I just order Bud). Most of this is imaginary, but it gets into your head. Like, when you go to a party, it's likely that nobody actually gives a damn that you're not drinking Bud or Heineken or whatever. But there are enough people who think it *would* matter. Like personally, I slightly prefer Pepsi to Coke. There is always a splinter in my mind that if I bring Pepsi to a party, people are going to laugh and make a deal of it, however small. So I'll bring Coke most of the time. I'm even less likely to bring Brand X Third Option Cola even if I find one that I like better. I'm Australian and I used to drink VB, a ubiquitous beer down here that's probably comparable to your high exposure, low quality beers. I drank it even though I always thought it tasted like refrigerated dog piss. I didn't even like beer until I started breaking away from the culture and experimenting with better beers, and realizing that the cultural pressure was completely in my head. It works on what's called your Salience List. Let me give you an example: Name 5 drinks. I'll go first 1. Coke 2. Fanta 3. Pepsi 4. Sprite 5. Water Now imagine you've just ordered a burger at a fast food place and the cashier asks if you would like a drink. What would be your first response? In your head you work your way down the list until you find an acceptable solution. There's a good chance that what you actually wanted didn't even make your top 5, but you may just have ordered #1, because it suited your needs at the time And that's why some companies pay millions for ads This is all based on low engagement decisions or something (I can't remember the exact term), but basically things you don't give much thought to, like what to have for lunch or what brand of toilet paper to buy. High engagement decisions, like buying a car, are still affected by this Salience List, but only as /u/PAJW said, only to make you aware that the item being advertised exists It's not necessarily about purchasing something "different" than you normally would. In some cases it's just providing a slight push. Restaurant/fast food ads are a big example here. Sure, if you absolutely never eat fast food or at chain restaurants then those ads mean nothing to you. But most people do have fast food or eat at chain restaurants, even if it's only occasionally. We live in a age where, if you live in a decently sized town (in the US at least), you have a lot of options when it comes to eating out. There's local restaurants/diners, big chain restaurants like Olive Garden or Outback Steakhouse, and of course fast food. Some people develop habits and just go to the same few places over and over again, but most people want some variety. How do you choose where to eat/order from? Usually it's based on what you're "in the mood for." Restaurant ads won't make you go anywhere that you'd never be willing to go without the ad, but they can provide a small nudge in one direction or another that could make you choose one place over another: * You're hungry and are thinking about getting food. If you see ads for pizza, you might think "hey, I haven't had pizza in a while." You might decide to get pizza instead of Mexican food or Chinese food or whatever, because why not? You like pizza and it's been a while. * You decide to get pizza. Your options are some local pizza places, or one of the big pizza chains. Maybe there's a local place you like, but it would cost more than you want to spend today, so you decide to go with one of the chains. You vaguely remember that Pizza Hut has some new garlic bread pizza thing, and that Domino's has a some sort of cheap carry-out deal, etc. Some of the things you know about these chains will be from personal experience, and some of the things you know will be from ads. You're not going to make a decision that you'd never be willing to make in the first place, like ordering from a place you hate, but the ads can nudge you into choosing one place over another, for reasons that are perfectly natural. Basically, ads can nudge "getting food" into "getting pizza", or nudge "getting pizza" into "getting Pizza Hut." It won't work all of the time, or even most of the time. But as long as it works on some people some of the time, it's going to have a sizable impact on a chain's business. Maybe they affect your pizza-buying decisions once a year. Even if ads only affect the pizza-buying decisions of every pizza consumer once a year on average, ads would still be responsible for millions of pizza purchases every year. Maybe most of those purchases would still happen without the ads, but the ads will affect which chains people purchase from, as well as whether or not they order from a chain or from a local place. Now, it's possible that if all the pizza places just agreed to stop advertising, they could save money and people would still buy tons of pizza, because people love pizza. But there are a lot of reasons why that would never happen. TV adverts are to get into your head - being in there makes them a contender when you make your purchasing decisions. ::Leonardo Dicaprio voice:: Now, obviously buying cinnamon breadsticks from Domino's as a "healthy choice" is an idea that you would choose to reject. Which is why they need to plant it deep in your subconscious. But y'know, sometimes ideas sink in better when you are NOT directly paying attention them as they are being presented. **tl:dr** "Inception" is a brazillion times easier than they made it out to be in that movie. Everyone feels that they're not affected by advertisements, propaganda, PR, spun news, etc; but they are. They pay the money because ads work and they work really well. The fact you don't realise you ate influenced is part of how they work. You think you are self aware and like the stuff you like when actually you have just accepted the things which have been marketed to you as part of your identity. Ads aren't usually meant to work in solitude but as part of a bigger campaign, it's about slowly changing your opinion or making you buy something. For example take the diamond jewellers De Beers, they completely changed the way people buy diamonds by introducing the concept of an engagement ring and that it should cost 3 months salary (or whatever) together with the line "A diamond is forever" Just seeing a poster with the line won't make you do anything but it's just a small part of a bigger campaign to introduce the concept Or the Swiss watch manufacturer Patek Philippe who changed the way people looked at buying luxury watches with the line "you never actually own a Patek Philippe, you only look after it for the next generation" changing what essentially is the ultimate selfish act to what can be seen as almost an altruistic act. Source: have worked in advertising for 20 years, currently work for one of the best known ad agencies in the world Corporate marketing communications manager here. While I never was involved in TV advertising, I got a lot of emails and cards over the years from people who purchased a commercial shade installation because they either went back to an ad I ran in a magazine months ago or that they kept in a file long ago. So you may not be paying much attention to a TV ad you have seen lots of times due to the repeated airing each day on so many channels, but you do remember that you have seen it before. Whether you like the ad or not, it made an impression on you when you finally did make a purchase of that type of item. And its not just the TV ad. Its a combination of exposure from TV, print ads, internet search results, YouTube videos, highway billboards, vehicle wraps, radio, Tee shirts, trade show exhibits, window merchandising, football stadium naming, etc. constantly reinforcing the brand over and over and over. And there are other factors, like: * The 80/20 Pareto Principle that states 80% of the sales will come from 20% of the ad impressions and that 80% of the sales will come from 20% of the customers. * Ads from competing brands work together to make social change. For example my product was a visually transparent roller shade which is not the dominant shade in commercial office buildings. Thus, my ads and my competitor roller shade ads worked together to convert commercial offices to no longer purchase mini blinds. Thus if any one of us roller shade advertisers succeeded in getting a bid we all succeeded in getting to bid. Beer does not just compete with beer, it competes with water, soda, juice and other drinks. Thus the goal of each advertiser succeeded if you went to the freezer containing their drink category. Its also why gas stations and grocery stores are across the street from each other. It's all about having you aware of the product, either consciously or due to a half-remembered jingle or funny commercial. It may not make people with set brand preferences change their shopping habits, but there's plenty of people who don't care what brand they pick up, and will just go for whatever is cheap and looks 'familiar'. So if you're buying deodorant and laugh a little as you remember *'I'm on a horse'*, chances are you're going to at least pick up some Old Spice and have a sniff to see if it's any good. Which, in turn, makes you more likely to buy it. Let's talk about frame shifting! Cause that's a huge part of marketing and advertising. Like moving the [overton window]( URL_0 ), that in advertising, is taking existing trends and making them more acceptable to the public. Need to clean yourself with soap? Well, what if you need different soaps for different parts of your body? Like how you need body soap and shampoo already? There's metric shifting, like: Okay, your house *looks* clean, but is it really clean? Are you really killing 99.9% of bacteria? There's value shifting, like: Okay, you have your daily hygienic ritual, but are you shaving some of that nasty body hair off? Using these different methods in some combination, marketing can create new niches and new demand for products, or simply capture existing market by modifying or creating new social norms. There are several that reddit is generally aware of, like how wedding rings and diamond marketing are intertwined. First they shifted the metric that weddings should be grand, in order to always include a nice ring and rock, then they shifted the overton window of reasonable expense to be 'a months wages', then there's further metric shifting with engagement rings and promise rings and men's rings and other things. There's razor blades and creating the market to shave lady legs. If we look at a lot of shifts over time, they often create entire subcultural phenomena. No intention to do that needs to exist. Just marketers gathering around exploitable markets and all trying to leave their fingerprints. We can look at gaming culture, for example, and see how competing systems & game companies tried to create an ever more 'badass' reputation that led to exploitation by mountain dew and doritos and cheaply produced FPSes to create a very corporative subculture which is nonetheless traceable back to ads for the failed game, Daikatana, and before that, to . . . Sonic the Hedgehog. We might not have modern FPS CoD culture if it wasn't for sega trying to pass itself off as more 'adult' and 'badass' than nintendo, since that started a whole marketing oneupsmanship in PC gaming that led to the nature of the advertising in Doom vs. Quake, which led to Daikatana . . . It's actually very direct and for a long time existed only in the marketing. And somehow that leads to red food colouring in soft drinks making them sell better. Without you, or actually, *anyone* saying: "Well, geez, I'm going to go out and buy that product now", a market niche can be created through this type of renormalization to sell products that wouldn't ever have sold a single unit before. In the short term, that can be hard to see, but in the long term, how many restaurants don't have either pepsi, coca cola, or some other soft drink available? If you change social norms, you don't need to make people actively think "I need to buy this product", you don't need to rely on people being more familiar with your product, it's just what people do. It's just one of these things that people buy. I mean, you want to do both those things as well, but a lot of car commercials don't even sell the cars, they just build consumer identities, like "This is an ACTION MOVIE CAR", or "People who own this brand of car are classier", "This is a vehicle that goes off-road, like real men do", and slowly over much time and ads effect social norms and expectations of what classy is, or what masculinity is. You don't need to be the one buying a mercedes to effect the general purchasing habits by being part of a society that thinks that mercedes are classy. From a day-to-day viewpoint, marketers aren't really usually thinking of this kind of stuff, but you can see from the person talking about BTL and ATL advertising that this is the type of indirect approach that most TV commercials even unintentionally head for. It's subtle shifting of the frame, not drastic changes to. So the TL;DR: even ads that don't succeed in selling a particular item have a drastic impact on our culture over time in combination with other ads, and marketers are smart enough to notice, track, and use these subtle trends to sell more shit.
They will generally use high-resolution, regional weather models. These are essentially computer programs that solve a set of equations that aim to represent the physics of the atmosphere and ocean. These equations are extremely complicated so these models are also very complicated, which is why meterological agencies generally own very powerful supercomputers to solve them. There are two main reasons why there is so much uncertainty in weather forecasts. Firstly, the equations being solved are chaotic which means they are extremely sensitive to initial conditions. Whilst weather stations allow us to gather data about the weather *now* so we can plug it into the models to find out the weather in a few days, we only have a limited number of weather stations, which means we have to 'guess' some of the initial conditions. These initial guesses introduce more and more error as the model steps forward in time. Part of the way we get around this is by running a set (an 'ensemble') of models with slightly varying initial conditions to represent our uncertainty, and then look at how widely or closely the outputs agree with one another. Secondly, whilst we understand the fundamental physics of the environment, these equations have no exact solutions which means that any numerical solution we obtain through a computer is going to be an approximation. The complexity of the physics a computer can solve as well as the spatial (how small a grid cell a computer can model, the smaller the grid cell the better the results) and temporal (how small the time-step is, the smaller the better) resolutions are limited by how powerful your computer is.
I don't know for sure, yet it seems rather obvious to me. Normally, when you are not on vacation, you wake up in the same bed, in the same house, and that is the place that you spend most of your time in. When you've been on vacation for a while, your brains have adjusted to living in a different environment, and they have sort of "forgotten" about your home. When you return home and see it again, the memories of your home flood back. It smells and look different from the place that you have been having a vacation at for the past days. That's why it feels kind of outplaced, different.
I point at cat, call it a cat. They point at cat, call it a gato. We both point at cat. I say gato, they say cat. We both know a new word. There are different ways. Different circumstances. Usually you would know the language of your neighboring region (because you have to trade with them) and they probably know the language of the neighboring region on the other side. In one specific case, we had the famous Rosetta stone which had a large portion of text in Greek, Egyptian hieroglyphics, and Demotic, and proved invaluable in learning to translate between Greek (commonly known in Europe among scholars) and the mysterious Egyptian pictographic language. Other times, such as traveling to other continents or places with no common language, you have to do it the hard way. Point to your arm and say arm, point to the sun and say sun, etc several thousand times. If you are interested in a book about the subject, try Daniel Everett's "Don't sleep there are snakes". Here is a review about it: URL_0 The same way as children learn a new language. You still have the capacity as an adult, it is just much slower. You pay attention, and at first you start understanding the most common items (food, household objects, animals, numbers), then if you stay in the environment, the more you can speak the basics of the language, the more you can add on. Eventually you will be speaking the 'other' language, then you can start translating text. If you do not understand a word by that time, it will be easy to ask someone who is native to describe it for you (like an english-english dictionary)
I took a few theoretical math courses as an undergrad and grad student, and my general idea is that you need to explicitly state your intuition and any relevant theorems and their relevance. Avoid using words like "clearly." Even if you're thinking that word, there's probably some intuition you need to write down. Think about how your audience might interpret your proof and make sure all leaps are explained. A similar question has been asked and answered on Stack Exchange, also asked by an undergrad student. You might find it helpful: URL_0 You have the right idea of asking your professors. Not only can they give you general guidelines, but rigor has slight subjectivity, so each professor has different expectations that you need to understand. You're asking for an exact distinction but there isn't an exact one because rigor is about convincing your audience that your proof is complete.
Basically, what it boils down to is that pretty much everything in our solar system [formed at about the same time]( URL_0 ). It turns out that this particular meteorite has a [particular composition that makes age estimations based on lead isotopes easier to measure]( URL_1 ). Thus, if we can get a precise estimate of when this meteorite formed, we can also get a more precise estimate of when the Earth formed.
When you get dizzy, let's say from spinning too fast, your eyes see something different than your balance tells you. In nature, the most likely reason this happens is because you've been poisoned, i.e. eaten something poisonous. So you puke it out just to be safe. Your brain thinks that the dizziness is caused by something you ate, so it makes you throw up to get that thing out of your body.
The testicles are formed inside the abdominal cavity and then drop down prior to sexual maturity. There is a nerve attached to the testicle that runs back into that area.
Well it would be easier to pay off your fixed-rate mortgage, assuming the bank didn't go under. Granted your immediate problems, such as securing and affording food and medicine would be much more immediate.
Because they have a long track record of misrepresenting the truth and frequently spreading baseless (right-wing) conspiracy theories (climate change is a hoax, Obamas' birther stuff, gamergate, pizzagate), knowingly using fake or debunked sources ( URL_1 ), and occasionally lying outright. It is propaganda more than news. They have also employed "journalists" whose careers have consisted of 50% fraud, 50% harassment campaign. In their eyes, anything goes. See [here]( URL_0 ) if you want a few fact checks. Or [here]( URL_2 ) Not *everyone* hates Breitbart; but what is true is that it doesn't have a very good reputation. Breitbart has a very strong right-wing bias, which in itself isn't bad; unfortunately, there's a lot of evidence that it will misquote sources, take things out of context or even fabricate facts in order to fit its ideology, which appears to be white supremecist. For example, Breitbart recently reported that on New Year's Eve, about 1,000 migrants gathered in Dortmund to throw fireworks at the police and set Germany's oldest church on fire while chanting "Allahu Akhbar". The local paper it cited as its source [was incensed at the way Breitbart had misquoted it]( URL_0 ). The story of 1,000 Muslims rioting and committing arson falls apart when you look at local reports, police records and German traditions; the facts are these: * Gathering in the street at midnight and setting off fireworks is a German New Year's Eve tradition, and one of the busiest nights for the emergency services. * The 1,000 people that gathered in that place were mostly Germans. * A few individuals threw fireworks at police. They were instructed to stop; when they ignored those instructions, they were given a formal caution and made to leave the area (standard procedure in Germany). * One errant firework started a small fire in the netting of the scaffolding erected around the church for repair work; it was put out within minutes and didn't cause any significant damage. This is pretty much normal for New Year's Eve in Germany. * The church in question isn't even Germany's oldest. * It's possible some Muslims there may have shouted "Allahu Akhbar", but this is a very common exclamation in Arabic. It can be used as a battle-cry, but is most often simply an expression of things like joy, grief or fear, a bit like "Oh my God!" This isn't an isolated case, but is typical of the kind of journalism for which Breitbart has become famous. It goes beyond having a political opinion, and actually changes objective facts to suit its ideology; in short, it's not news, it's political propaganda. Misrepresentation, conspiracy theories, outright lying, outdated sources, and trolling people. They're like a right wing Buzzfeed but somehow more irritating. Because it's not news but unabashed propaganda, and often distorts the truth or outright lies.
People in general find more safety in familiar environments with familiar things. Providing a cherished toy provides a tangible connection to the familiar. This is especially helpful if the parents don't plan on sleeping with the child, as their absence may cause some anxiety in the child who is used to seeing and hearing them around. I am not a kid anymore but I sleep with a cinnamon roll Squishable, kinda like a teddy bear. I have anxiety and having something cute that's soft provides relief from a visual and tactile standpoint. At first she was just serving the purpose of looking adorable, but now the comfort and familiarity makes it so that sleeping with her on my belly helps prompt the "sleepy time" center of my brain. Kids seem to respond well to rituals, especially in regards to sleep. Like a lullaby or warm milk, teddy bears can be a part of the ritual too.
This is not the answer you are looking for but it may be as simple as being able to predict the pattern of song and therefore no longer be as interesting because there are no surprises. Same thing occurs when you watch the same movie over and over. Not neurological but this phenomenon in Economics is called "diminishing marginal utility". It means that every time you consume a good (in this case a song) it gives you a little less enjoyment every time you listen to it. Your brain wants you to live, when you hear/taste/feel something it considers 'good' for you the brain rewards you and thats actually why you feel good. Next time it gets this stimulus its not quite as needed/exciting so it makes you feel slightly less good, everytime it gets less and less untill its just normal, or even bad and this makes you look for something else (another song). This system is more suited for finding food, or a mate but same process applies
Not sure, but I don't think so -- fossilization happens when other minerals get into something that was organic. Usually this has to happen in soil, which has a lot of minerals to replace with. If you're thinking Egyptian mummies, they're so far removed from soil due to the preservation techniques that they couldn't fossilize -- they'd just stay a mummy. But mummies like bog mummies, who were preserved by the peat's specific makeup, might! I don't actually know. There are fossilized bones from regular corpses though!
It depends on the specific app. For some apps, it's not private at all. For others, it's possible for them to see who you're texting but not the contents of the text. Others are completely private. In some cases, the answer is "it depends". WhatsApp, for example, didn't used to be private until recently - and it's only private if everyone in a chat has a reasonably up-to-date version of the app. When you create a new conversation in WhatsApp, it will show a message saying that the chat is private (if it is).
First off, let me clearly state that there is no "definitive answer", there are several theories out there but none has been proven so far. However [this website lists several theories]( URL_0 ) which are quite interesting. Among others it also lists the water claim but explains why crocodiles were less affected than aquatic dinosaurs. Simply put, crocodiles are amphibious creatures who live near land and in fresh water areas (swamps, rivers, lakes, etc.) but not in oceans/salt waters. The KT extinction event might have simply been more devastating to those biotopes than those of crocs. It's easy to imagine environmental factors to influence fish but not frogs, crocs, turtles, etc. The same distinction goes for mosasaurus and a crocodile. The one theory I find most interesting is that dinosaurs, even though they are reptilian in nature, were actually warm-blooded which would explain the devastating effect of climate change on them opposed to the cold-blooded crocodiles. Lastly, maybe crocodiles are not the only species to survive and some crustacean beasts roam the seas looking for about three-fiddy. You have to keep in mind that while some 'crocodiles' survived many others did not. Basically all land dwelling animals larger than a certain size became extinct and lots of small animals too. Of the dinosaurs only some birds survived and most other groups related to dinosaurs like the flying reptiles etc died out. The ancestors of our modern crocodiles are one of the exceptions, they were part of a larger group of crocodile like species and most of those died out too. Of the crocodile like species all the larger species and all the species living in the ocean became extinct and only som small freshwater species survived. It is wrong to think that crocodiles survived while dinosaurs didn't. Both groups suffered huge losses and only had some small species survive. The dinos that survived were small birds, the crocs that survived were small freshwater crocs. The crocodilians just evolved into the different large species we have today that look a lot like their ancestors while modern birds large don't resemble their ancestors too much. Crocodilians have a few advantages over a lot of other animals, even though some of these advantages are possessed by other animals as well. Look at the way Alligators in North America hibernate, and you'll see how the prehistoric crocodiles survived. Their lungs are a fibrous network in their upper torso that can expand to 2/3 of their torso length, enabling them to hold a larger amount of air than creatures with encapsulated lungs, like people. They can slow their blood flow and metabolism down when times are hard, putting themselves into a semi-hibernative state, torpor. This enables the increased oxygen supply to last longer, as their body requires less resources. Unless they're in a growth period, as a cold blooded creature, they don't need a lot of food for maintenance, and slowing their metabolic state reduces this need further. A big meal can mean that a crocodile doesn't need to eat for days. An 8 foot alligator needs less than 400 calories a day for maintenance, and can sink for nearly a day with a good breath. So something like Saurosuchus Imperator, at 40 feet long, may have been able to get a stomach full of dinosaur, take a good deep breath, and sink for a longer period of time. Occasionally coming up for a breath, or grabbing more food. Source: worked with various crocodilians for 30 years, and on various projects with Paul Sereno, paleontologist.
You've never listened to women playing tennis or men struggling to lift something? Most sexual grunting and moaning is a result of strenuous exercise and tension, plus the sounds of pleasurable release (which people can often make in nonsexual situations as well).
Hi, I'm going to offer you this pen! It's originally $100 but I'll give you a 90% discount. It's yours for the low, low price of $10! It's a combination of higher markup than the discounted price and/or using the discounts as loss-leaders. A loss-leader is selling something at a loss and relying on people's impulsive purchase habits to have them buy other things with higher markups that makes up for the loss. An example of a loss-leader is our local grocery chain had a "buy 1 box of Velveeta cheese, get 2 cans of rotel tomato and pepper sauce". If they give you the stuff to make a nice dip, you're going to need a bag of chips. They're gambling that you'll buy a bag or two of chips as well. So they give you $1.50 worth of rotel, and you buy $5 worth of chips. A Shutterfly specific instance of this would be when we got a free 8x8 picture book. My wife made one with pictures of our child to give to a great grandparent for Christmas. She then decided "it would be nice if we had one, and if we had another one to another older relative." Not to mention, she added a couple of upgrades to some of the books. So their offer of a free 8x8 book got them $60+ in revenue.
The bankers broke no laws. The VW exec committed fraud and violated numerous other laws. You tend to only be arrested for committing crimes, not just doing bad things. From the [New York Times]( URL_0 ): > Mr. Schmidt deceived American regulators “by offering reasons for the discrepancy other than the fact that VW was intentionally cheating on U.S. emissions tests, in order to allow VW to continue to sell diesel vehicles in the United States,” the affidavit said. Said a different way, Schmidt actively lied and hid information from the US government. With the bankers intimately involved with the housing crash, there wasn't enough evidence to prove criminal wrong doing on their part. Their basic defense was that the they didn't think the toxic assets were actually toxic, instead relying on the professional opinions of credit rating agencies. & nbsp; Edit: To clarify for all the replies, I personally think it's extremely likely that there was at least one banking executive that knowingly sold toxic assets. Furthermore, such people *should* be held responsibile. A big difference between the VW scandal and the housing bust is that the diffusion of responsibility was larger for the banks involved, whereas it was harder for VW. The VW execs committed fraud (basically knowingly lying). Even worse, they lied to the government. If you commit fraud, it's a jailable offense. There was also a lot of proof. It's hard to accidentally design a system that just so happens to turn on during regulation testing. Can't really "oops" that. What the bankers did was more complex. They didn't necessarily commit fraud, rather they were being kind of "dumb"(or if you prefer, risky). Being dumb isn't a crime. However, if everyone is dumb, it can really screw up the market when people start realizing it was dumb, even if it wasn't intentional. It's possible that some did it knowing they were taking risk, but that's very hard to prove unless they were dumb enough to put it down on paper/email. However, big banks have compliance offices. Basically they're the private "police" for the bank. They're supposed to make sure people who work at the bank don't go doing dumb stuff (but again, it can be hard to find. there's a lot of people involved, and judgement calls). So what the SEC *can* do, is fine the bank itself, and say "those guys were dumb. we can't tell (or care) if it was intentional, but you're supposed to make sure they don't take on too much risk". In addition, when the SEC fines banks for being "dumb", there is a lot of subjectivity for the prosecutor and judges to decide what is actually too dumb to be reasonable. If everyone is buying something that is worthless, how do you prove that they're buying stuff that's worthless knowingly, to rip people off? Maybe they just think it's good.Everyone else is buying it,you know? It's hard! And for the most part, a lot of banks didn't intentionally do risky stuff. It was an "oops, hey guys, we just realized we're screwed.". It was an honest mistake. However, if enough banks all make the same mistake and go out of business, it can really mess with the rest of the economy. The bankers who were dumb enough to say "we know this is crap but we're selling it anyway" did go to jail. For obvious reasons this is fairly rare. Bankers *did* go to jail. Here's one: URL_0 But its far easier to legally bind an auto exec to his own manufactured vehicle than it is to bind financial institutions to an industry-wide scam. Many people here are commenting that Bankers did not commit any crimes. This is incorrect. A big example of this is how credit ratings agencies (S & P, Moody's, etc) knowingly rated financial instruments as very secure investments when they knew those instruments were worthless. You can read about this in a [civil lawsuit]( URL_0 ) filed by the justice department. Why was this merely a civil lawsuit, and not criminal prosecution? Quite simply, many wall street banks are "Too big to jail." Eric Holder testified about this in congress when referencing the HSBC scandal: The report is available [here]( URL_1 ). > I am concerned that the size of some of these [financial] institutions becomes so large that it does become difficult for us to prosecute them when we are hit with indications that if you do prosecute, if you do bring a criminal charge, it will have a negative impact on the national economy, perhaps even the world economy. And I think that is a function of the fact that some of these institutions have become too large . . . I think it has an inhibiting influence—[an] impact on our ability to bring resolutions that I think would be more appropriate.9 Looking at that, the ample evidence available to the justice department, and the lack of criminal prosecutions from the 2008 scandal, it's possible to connect the dots about what happened here. You might have to give more information. Bankers didn't face jail for the housing crisis because they didn't do anything illegal. The problem with most white-collar crime is that it's often very hard to prove, not only who is responsible, but even that there was a crime at all. The line between "shady but legal" and "fucking criminal" is extremely blurry. It can be as tiny a difference as "did you know that what you said was untrue?" If it was actually lying then it's fraud, a crime; if you simply didn't know and were bullshitting to make a sale, it's impossible to prove that there was any fraud; and if you just handed off responsibility and read the company line, it's shitty but legal. In the case of the housing crash there's a large legal difference between fraud and incompetence. When the bubble burst everyone washed their hands of responsibility, pointing the blame everywhere else. It was impossible to say who had actually "committed fraud" and who was just going along with the prevailing culture. That culture created a strong pressure not to look too closely at what was going on. The people selling mortgages weren't the people selling the bonds, who weren't the people rating those bonds, who weren't the people repackaging those bonds, who weren't the people gambling on those bonds, etc. People upstairs blamed the people downstairs, people downstairs blamed the people upstairs, they both blamed people outside, people outside blamed people inside.... Most of the people responsible for the crash were "knowingly ignorant" of the issues at hand. It's almost impossible to believe they couldn't see the risks, but they also didn't care to actually look for them. It's like covering your ears and singing when someone tells you bad news. If you didn't hear it you're not lying when you don't repeat it, but at the same time you kinda know you're wrong. After the crash we couldn't prove who had heard the bad news and lied about it and who had covered their ears and pretended everything was still okay. Both are shitty, but only one is illegal. Ultimately the issue isn't a lack of punishment after the fact. It was a lack of oversight and regulation before the fact. Oversight and regulation that haven't come and aren't likely to. Just because nobody did anything illegal doesn't mean that what they did should have been legal. And just because we can't now prove that there was anything illegal now doesn't mean that if we'd been watching more carefully we couldn't have spotted illegal behavior then. With VW it was much easier to pinpoint who was lying. That lie was what meant fraud, which meant jailtime. Why is no one from Harley being arrested when they did basically the same thing: URL_0 ? If you haven't already seen it, The Big Short is a pretty solid ELI5 movie about the crisis, and they have a good minute long explanation of your question at the end. It's even on Netflix, and who doesn't love seeing Steve Carell try a serious role after The Office? Edit: grammar... Because they're not an American company. I'm a VW owner (of an affected diesel model), as well as an owner of a Harley Davidson. Harley paid $15 million in fines for equipping bikes with tuners classified last year as "emissions defeat devices" while VW paid $15 BILLION. Because the government gave the banks money and said give out loans. Before it became "We must stop predatory loans," it was, "Everyone deserves a home." VW crossed the government by outright creating cheating software which was easily traced. So because there was more evidence and the government wasn't partially to blame it was simpler to find fault. yea barney frank saying that fannie and freddie were sound is just stupid... and all the idiots and the press believed it... Because politicians and lawyers were more responsible for the housing crisis than the bankers were, look up The Community Reinvestment Act and how it laid the ground work for the crisis decades earlier. It was all feel good politics defunct of any actual economic reality. So, this is probably a completely different situation, but didn't Iceland jail its bankers? Is there something that they specifically did that the U.S. bankers didn't do? Are the laws on banking different enough there to hypothetically cause a problem if a U.S. banker had lived there instead? VW engineered loopholes into their engine management software to override testing systems. They did this by studying the testing systems and designing their software to only run clean when it detected that the test machine was hooked up. That's against the law. They were caught when researchers at the U of West Virginia (of all places) used testers that detect emissions from moving vehicles, without being attached to the cars and triggering the loophole software. The bankers engineered loopholes into the U.S. banking laws to override common-sense business practices. They did it by making campaign contributions to agreeable politicians and making a known practice of later hiring them to cushy jobs after they'd done their time in public service. That's not against the law. Common-sense economics caught up with their financial schemes (some of which were designed by astrophysicists whose previous specialty was black holes--who knew that was a bad thing?), but the law didn't, because they'd taken the precaution of disabling it first. Moral: put your engineering bucks where it gives you the greatest ROI. Better question...why weren't any politicians who created the atmosphere for the housing crisis (and worked with said bankers) thrown in jail? Bankers did break fiduciary duty. They didn't get charged because the system is corrupt. Other than that, it is simply amazing reading this thread full of rationalization you actually heard from bankers themselves. Or, their politicians. The reason is in your title: "the bankers" is a totallly nonspecific mass noun, while "a VW exec" is very specific to a small group of people at a particular company, in this case one person. US banks managed to avoid name recognition for their crimes by * reorganizing/bankrupting if their names became known to the public as authors of fraudulent debt, and * being so *generally and totally* corrupt that no one name became synonymous with the scandal for the public. VW, on the other hand, is in an auto-maker scandal of one. Our legal system is very good at punishing specific, identifiable people and entities, and generally public prosecutors serve political interests. The bankers spent millions of dollars over decades having the laws changed. VW needs to get on their level. Because bankers paid for the politicians who wrote the laws to protect them. In Murica, if you steal a 1000 dollar tv, you get 10 years in jail. If you steal 10 billion, you get a stern lecture on Live TV(C Span) by the people you paid to hold office. VW executives did not give a political donation to the right group There was no political will to prosecute, because the banks wield enormous power and influence. VW has rivals with more power and influence. There is virtually no one to challenge the largest banks in the US. Clinton allowed them free reign. Bush bowed down to them as well. Obama's attorney general was an attorney for wall street banks, then as AG refused to prosecute any of them, even for tax evasion or money laundering. His law firm actually held his old office vacant for him so he could come back immediately after stepping down as AG and collect his reward for his faithful service. There are a lot of apologists in this thread making ridiculous excuses for not prosecuting individuals. Ignore them, and pay attention to what the head of the federal reserve said, instead: [ Ben Bernanke: More bankers deserved to be jailed for financial crisis]( URL_0 ) > "It would have been my preference to have more investigation of individual action, since obviously everything what went wrong or was illegal was done by some individual, not by an abstract firm," Bernanke told USA Today. The bankers ~~placed bribes~~**made political contributions** to legalize what they were going to do. VW didn't. Defraud the goverment = not ok. Defraud the people of the government = perfectly ok. Explained it like you were 5, you're welcome! :) VW is a threat to General Motors, Ford, and Chrysler because four cylinder diesel engines can potentially go half a million miles without a rebuild. This is also why the emissions standards have gradually become impossibly strict on diesel cars but remain VERY lenient on full sized pickup trucks, big rig semi trucks, dump trucks, and every type of diesel off road heavy machinery. Members of congress get campaign donations from the American large diesel engine manufacturers but not from the European and Asian small diesel engine manufacturers. Follow the money.
A vector is an arrangement of values in one dimension, like this: V = [a, b, c, d, e] etc. A matrix is a vector of vectors. For example v1 = [ a, b, c ] v2 = [ d, e, f ] v3 = [ g, h, i ] v1, a, b, c, M = [ v2, ] = [ d, e, f, ] v3, g, h, i You can think of a matrix as a two dimensional arrangement of values. A tensor is a vector or matrix of matrices. You can think of it as a three or higher dimensional version of a matrix.
Because you have no gag reflex. You have likely lost your gag reflex through the repeated taking through your throat hole of various large objects. What these objects might have been we can only guess. It is possible that you are bulimic and have lost your gag reflex that way. Perhaps you're a sword swallower. But the fact that you do not gag under any of the circumstances you've described strongly suggests that you have suppressed your gag reflex in some way. The gag reflex is almost a defence against involuntary inhalation/ingestion of things. You're scenario where you don't gag on food, but do when the dentist tries to put stuff back there isn't quite right. When you "don't gag on food", it's because you're swallowing. As someone who has had tubes down their throats for medical procedures I can assure you that if you try and swallow while their putting the tubes in, it makes you stop gagging. The software in your brain differentiates between an unwanted intrusion, i.e. the dentist who you don't really know who sometimes causes extreme discomfort sticking things in there that you know normally dont go there, so you gag to try and expel it. Food you want otherwise it would make you gag too. Edited, spelling.
when something looks like it has some colour, it is because it reflects visible light of that respective wavelength - and ABSORBS all the rest. It only reflects what it cant "eat". When you mix the different pigments, they just eat and eat and eat and dont end up reflecting anything, because everything was absorbed by something. Its like if you had a dog and fed it hay and meat, the hay wouldnt disappear. If you had a cow and fed it hay and meat, the meat wouldnt disappear. Dog "reflects" hay and cow "reflects" meat. But if you had a dog and a cow together and would feed them hay and meat, both would disappear. By combining them, you combine their "absorption", because thats what actually allows the "reflection" to occour, which is the result - lack of food or colour. Black is not the absence of color. Black is the way we perceive the absence of light. If you saturate the paper with lots of different pigments that each absorb a certain range of light, then very little light will be reflected from that spot and we perceive it as black.
Most of that territory is inaccessible. If you want to hike over mountains and through swamp, well, I guess we will catch you when you reach the town on the other end. A lot of borders actually do have some kind of fence all along them. It could just be wire that sends an alarm if tripped, and then a border guard patrol will investigate. Or it could be something hard to climb. Very often, country borders today are the historical borders that naturally arose between communities - geographical features like lakes or mountains. Just because it's relevant and potentially interesting - in Europe there is the [Schengen Area]( URL_0 ) which is essentially a series of open borders that allow for the free movement of individuals between (most of) the countries of mainland Europe. So, in much of Europe, they simply do not physically enforce their land borders anymore (though given recent terrorism and the rise of nationalist political parties the Schengen Area may not survive in the long term). They don't. It is practically impossible to control all the territory, so ideas like "building a wall" are sheer idiocy. What you CAN do is increase patrols, fences, and security at points where people are likely to cross. This includes roads, urban areas (like El Paso), and other points near civilization that make crossing easy. That makes it more likely that people will have to move through difficult and remote areas, which serves as a deterrent. The short answer is they don't, directly. People have mentioned various geographical measures and security measures, but in most parts of the world, there's not an awful lot of difference between neighbouring countries, and it's often difficult to just move, owing to language barriers and the paperwork that is needed to get on with life, especially when things go wrong .... you are sick, you are arrested, you need to claim benefits. You often can't access those things in a foreign country, easily, so it's often a bad move to go.
It's mostly CYA. You are probably removed from the "get new email" list quickly, but they can't guarantee there isn't an already sent email sitting in a mail servers queue somewhere you haven't received yet. Easier to give you a few day buffer than have you call up angry the next day. When bulk emailing normally these are front loaded with timings set up for when they go out so the company can control drop rates and deal with unexpectedly high demand as a result of mailers. A lot of the time this is actually handled by a 3rd party company. It's not like sending out a group email from your own inbox. As a result of the processes these batches end to be signed off in advance and everything ready to go at set times so you can just go in and change the database etc or email a 3rd party to remove one of possibly thousands of emails due to go out. One such issue is some companies use different mail programs for different mail services. The problem is that you then have different lists that need to be coordinated. This isn't necessarily quick, depending on how it was built. Sometimes they request it built quick, not the right way.
Students and young people are often more idealistic and more likely to believe they can effect real change, while older people tend to be more pessimistic and resigned to things being hopeless or impossible to change. You can put this partly down to naivete on the part of young people, who lack experience and haven't seen protest movements fail before, but it's also true that if you've known a particular situation for ~50 years it's easy to incorrectly feel like it's fixed and "that's how it's always been and always will be." On top of that, students and young people tend to have more free time, and less to lose. If you're 40 and working to pay off your mortgage and support your kids, getting arrested at a protest or labelled as unpatriotic can totally destroy your life, prevent you from feeding your family; even keeping someone in jail for a few days can result in them losing their job, without you having to charge them, a tactic that has been used in some countries. When you've got kids and people relying on you, you don't want to rock the boat or do anything risky. If you're in your 20s, it's much more likely that you don't have to worry about that. Students specifically, as opposed to just young people not in school, tend to form protest movements because they're more likely to be engaged with social and political issues thanks to their education, more likely to be left wing (university-educated people tend to lean more leftward than average) which means you oppose traditionalism and push social change, and crucially, they're surrounded by lots of other young people who are also engaging with social and political issues, making it easier to form mass movements. Universities are places where 100 people are routinely gathering in the same room to voluntarily learn about politics, it's going to be easier to attract large numbers of people interested in political protest there than anywhere else. This applies to a specific example, but in the 50s-60s, the US civil rights movement was heavily driven by university students because universities were a great place for black people and white people to finally mix socially. People moved from towns where segregation (either legally-enforced or just socially custom) dominated to urban areas to attend universities where black and white students sat next to each other in class, and the experience resulted in a lot of them realizing that the segregation they grew up with was bullshit and becoming enthusiastic about fighting it. Anytime a paper interviewed a white person inexplicably participating in the movement for black civil rights you would hear "I grew up with my parents and friends telling me the blacks were slow and naturally inferior, a different species, then I went to university and there were black kids in my dorm and black kids in my classes and I realized it was all a load of crap." This has lessened a bit thanks to organisation over the internet. We're seeing the average age of protesters rise (although take this with a grain of salt, it's hard to measure). They have spare time. You never see throngs of "single mothers of 2 with 3 jobs" protesting anything but school lunch changes. Students have little to loose - no employers that would kick them out for skipping days - are sufficiently naïve and idealistic to think that a protest matters (as opposed to a deal struck in the corridors of power, or a horde of armed revolutionaries), are more educated than the global average (hence have been exposed to alternate political ideologies), and are just entering the politically active age. Of course, it's not always a good thing. "Taliban" literally translates to "students".
Nuggets, Chicken-based sausage products, stuff like that. The meat is almost always ground up so it has a consistent texture. You can use ground chicken in a product and still call it 100% chicken, cause it is, but in order to say 100% chicken *breast* it better be breast meat. [Russia]( URL_1 ). Seriously, for many years [Russia was a major importer of leg quarters]( URL_0 ) of chicken. When the banned US chicken the price of leg quarters dropped in the US until prices were low enough that US buyers would buy both in similar amounts. Basically anything that doesn't say "100% chicken breast" is probably the rest of the meat. You only really notice it when it's called out, but if you start looking you'll notice that it often isn't called out. Roughly half the meat on a chicken is breast, so it's not like there's *that* much more meat out there.
Most things in our body are symmetic, on a cellular level this is because very early in embryogenesis a front and a posterior("back") are defined and along this axis initiated by different concentrations of signal molecules, symmetrical expression patterns are developed. They serve different purposes. Herbivores such as cattle or deer or elephants have relatively congruous teeth because their teeth only have one job, crushing leaves and roots and other plant matter. Carnivores like cats and wolves and sharks have relatively congrous teeth because their teeth only have one job, tear apart meat to be consumed. But humans are omnivores, so like other Great Apes and raccoons and other omnivorous creatures we have a variety of teeth. Our molars are crushing teeth that we use to grind up plant matter and sometimes cartilage and bone. Towards the front we have our incizors which help cut through what we eat, then we have our canines which help tear food apart, and then we have molars which grind. Molars wouldn't be of any help in the front because we need teeth that cut relatively cleanly (hence why over and undergoes are an issue). And incizors wouldn't be of help in the sides/back because we aren't tearing at that point. Look at a wolf or dog eat a deer or a rabbit. They clamp on with the side of their jaw and then pull. Our cheeks stop us from doing that so cutting teeth are of no use.
Since we are always around our own scent we become used to it and no longer notice most of the time. If you burn a candle and stay in the room you will no longer really smell it because you have become accustom to it. We adapt to smells very quickly. Within the space of just a few breaths, we can lose our ability to detect new odors. It's called olfactory adaptation. The concept of habituation answers your question. Habituation is essentially when repeated stimuli are filtered our by our brains so that we no longer notice them. For smells, if you are continually exposed to the same smell, it will become less and less noticeable because your brain feels it needs to focus on other smells (possibly in order to detect stimuli that are more important to your immediate survival.) Similarly, habituation is also the reason why you don't generally feel your feet in your shoes unless you're specifically thinking about them.
There wasn't one person who "discovered" it. Humans would make fire, and sometimes the plants they would put on the fire would make them feel different. Then they just eventually inhaled it as we smoke it now. Also, there aren't just a handful of plants. You can smoke any kind of plant really. But we have narrowed it down to a few that we have mass produced, therefore it only seems like a handful. You can smoke anything you want. It just has to be sufficiently dried so that it burns. What you get out of smoking tobacco vs weed vs grass clippings is an entirely different story. AFAIK, Native Americans were the first recorded people to smoke tobacco. Eastern tribes used an uncultivated version of tobacco, and some sources indicate after the introduction of European Settlers, the use of tobacco and opium spread from China into Southeast Asia around the 17th Century. > And why is it that only a handful of plants can be smoked? It's not. If you dry it up, it will burn. Some could be dangerous, if they have toxins or other irritants that you would inhale with the smoke. But plenty of others you could smoke and inhale. That being said, you can also eat dirt if you want to. But people are likely going to stick to plants that are palatable or otherwise have some perceived benefit. Mind you, inhaling particulate material like smoke into your lungs is bad for your lung health regardless of the contents.
Runways are routinely plowed and deiced by airport ground crews. If it is snowing hard enough that the runway can't be cleared the airport is closed and traffic is diverted to other airports.
Med student and martial arts buff here. Most people just aren't used to getting hit. It's a huge deal for most people because it's an egregious violation of all kinds of social norms, it destroys their pre-concieved notions about themselves and other people, and they just aren't accustomed to pain in any form. It doesn't take a lot of training to "beat" this reaction out of people. You can learn pretty quickly that getting hit in the head or face isn't necessarily the end of the world. It's never fun, but you can easily learn to deal with it, up to a point. Only up to a point, however. When you get hit hard enough, it can start to cause real problems, but the phenomenon you describe in the thread title is as much psychological as anything else. MMA fighters engage in a practice called sparring, in which they simulate a fight with a training partner- many times going much farther than a simulation and throwing punches and kicks 75 - 100% power (a practice that is now frowned upon in this more enlightened age of brain trauma in combat sports). This prepares them for the blows that they will receive in the actual fight, a typical fighter will engage in sparring multiple times in a week during a fight camp. What you saw in the James Harden incident was a man completely blindsided by a blow to the side of the head. Violence like this is rare in a basketball game and is not something that you can prepare for. He undoubtedly received a concussion from that, you simply can't train for being sucker-punched/elbowed by a giant. The punches that you see that knockout MMA fighters are the punches that they don't see coming, much easier to absorb a punch that you can at least try to block. Also, many times a lot of these guys are acting, putting on a little bit of the show for the referees so that they can get the offender ejected and giving their team an additional advantage, as well as soaking up some attention from a surprised crowd. I am *not* a doc or a fighter (more of a gadget lover) but I think this is more or less accurate. If you watch KO vids and know a bit of brain science, it's all about the axis of rotation of the head. A straight punch drives the brain back and forth along a single axis - a knockout blow (in any sport) is generally to the chin or temple which twists the head back *and* to the side violently - a two-axis rotation that torques the midbrain and causes the victim to lose consciousness. Watch the action of the victim's head in any KO video: two axes of motion = sleepytime.
Any bubble that touches the spoon pops because it is so rough. That leaves a gap that the other bubbles fall into. Since no bubble can go higher than the spoon, the pot doesn't overflow. It does, it's a myth. What it does do is pop the bubbles which potentially slows down the boiling over but if the pan is hot enough and there is sufficient liquid it will still boil over. It breaks surface tension on bubbles that touch it, popping them and leaving room for new bubbles. This does nothing to prevent the pot "boiling over" if there are enough bubbles being generated quickly.
[Here's an animation I did to explain sine and cosine]( URL_1 ). This is the main idea behind 90% of what you'll learn in trigonometry. Pick a unit circle. Move a dot around that circle at an angle & theta;, shown there in yellow. The sine of that angle in yellow is the vertical position of the point on the circle. The cosine of that angle is the horizontal position. Since this is a unit circle, you should be able to see why cos^2 θ + sin^2 θ = 1. Now, what about tangent? Tangent is better understood [like in this image]( URL_0 ). The tangent of an angle is the y coordinate where the line passing through the center of the circle and that moving dot crosses the vertical line x = 1. As you can see, when the angle is 90° the radial line will be pointing straight upwards, so it'll be parallel to that x = 1 line. The lines will never cross, so tangent is undefined at 90°. After 90° and towards 180°, the line from the center to the dot (which is infinite in both directions) will cross the x = 1 line below the x axis, so the tangent is negative. In that last image, you can also see that secant is the hypotenuse of the triangle 1^2 + tan^2 θ = sec^2 θ. This is also a very useful relationship you can get by dividing the entire equation cos^2 θ + sin^2 θ = 1 by cos^2 θ. Other manipulations will get you other relationships that may be useful. --- Now, if all of these made sense to you, with a little practice you can now spot these triangles everywhere, and you'll find a way to apply sine, cosine, tangent and secant whenever they appear. By the way, [these is another geometric interpretation]( URL_2 ) of tangent and secant, but I don't find them nearly as useful as the one I gave above. It's worth knowing about them, though.
If you're suffocated by being locked in a small box, it's not actually the lack of oxygen which is the problem. Normally the cycle is 20.9% oxygen, 0.04% CO2 in, then 16% oxygen 4% CO2 is exhaled. Inhaling 1% is very uncomfortable, "stuffy" air. 7%-10% CO2 is toxic and will lead to suffocation *even if there's sufficient oxygen*. Excess CO2 will change blood pH and the body can't handle that. So if you exhaled into a bag along with a tank of pure O2, well you could add the equivalent of +4% pure O2 on one side and vent out 4% of the volume of gas on the other side, but the CO2 mixed into the air so you don't remove the 4% CO2. No, the new CO2 level after partial venting is 3.84%, still toxic. So we're got 3 problems here: 1. We can't maintain breathable air by just adding O2. 2. You can't breathe pure O2 when diving either, O2 is toxic at the increased pressures experienced while diving. We can't dilute it with CO2 either, it can ONLY be diluted with nitrogen or (rarely) with helium. 3. We don't want to waste any volume of air here other than the CO2, but we can't just vent CO2 selectively. Not only would we waste the remaining 16% O2, but a larger volume of inert nitrogen too, and we don't want to carry a huge volume of nitrogen. Same's true for spacecraft. Spacecraft can't tolerate high O2 either because it makes everything super-flammable. What we have is a CO2 scrubber of lithium hydroxide or sodium hydroxide. These adsorb ONLY CO2 from the air and form a carbonate, this does reduce the volume of air and and equivalent volume of O2 can be added. The nitrogen (78% on Earth, varies in diving and space ships) is not consumed nor regenerated. The CO2 is literally "scrubbed" out. Humans don't exhale solely waste gasses - in reality, there is still some oxygen in the gas mix that you breath out. Rebreathers function by allowing this gas to be recycled, adding appropriate amounts of oxygen from the tank to the recycled air, and by filtering out gasses such as CO2 (IIRC). I can't give you any exact numbers, but this is my understanding from reading the Wikipedia page a while back. I'm a certified rebreather diver. I dive the Poseidon MKVI and 7. The rebreather machine is basically a Nitrox mixing machine on my back. One of the small bottles is 100% O2. The other is regular air. On the surface it feeds me the pure O2. As I dive it blends more and more air into the system to keep the gas safe to breath. The breathing system is a closed loop. Bubbles only exit the system when I use the gas for buoyancy purposes. The O2 will get used up by my body to survive so there is a sensor that automatically replaces the O2 as my body metabolizes it. The CO2 my body produces is deadly so there is a chemical in the system that absorbs that CO2. That's called the scrubber. Mine is a prepackaged sodalime chemical that I can buy at any rebreather specific dive shop. That's about it. Rebreathers are great. They are totally silent. Fish don't run away when they see you. They seem to think you are just another fish instead of a bubble spewing monster. One very small 2L tank of O2 can last me three - four hours of diving. If you dive with regular divers that ends up being an entire weekend of 2 tank diving.
What you are seeing is fluorescence or phosphorescence. This happens when certain materials absorb light of one color and emit light at a different color (this is *not* the same as reflection). All colors of light correspond to different amounts of energy. Blacklights produce ultraviolet (UV) light, which has more energy than the colors of light we can see with our eyes. (When you switch the blacklight on you'll see some purple color, which is the highest energy color we can see). It goes in order of decreasing energy: ... Ultraviolet Violet Blue Green Yellow Orange Red Infrared.... As it turns out, many materials will absorb UV light. What happens after that depends on what they're made of. Some materials can absorb light of one color and then shift their electrons around in a way that allows them to spit back out a different, less energetic color. So in a blacklight, they absorb the UV light that the lamp gives off, and then they spit out their own light in the visible range. This is why 'day glow' or 'fluorescent' green things shine so brightly in a blacklight (the sun also emits UV light, so these same materials do this during the day as well, but this process is comparatively dim). Same also for secret hand stamps that only glow in blacklight -- they don't absorb any visible light, only UV... and then they fluoresce (emit a lower energy color of light) so you can see them. As it turns out, some laundry detergents actually use this effect to their advantage. Our eyes are not so great at seeing blue (compared to green), so if you add a bit more blue to something that should look mostly white, it actually looks "whiter." This is why detergent has that wierd blueish color, and also why it will clearly glow in the dark if you shine a blacklight on it. Blacklight is composed by ultraviolet light. We can't see ultraviolet, but it acts in the same way as common light bands. That means we can see the reflection of mostly the blue width of light when blacklight is pointed to white surfaces.
The limitations on hours are dependent on your age and the state you live in, but at 17 you are almost certainly not going to be restricted at all (except, of course, that if you're still in school you have to go to school). For what it's worth, know that the laws limiting hours minors can work is for their protection, so that they cannot be *forced* to work at the expense of the schooling and childhood. Your school schedule is, of course, immutable. You can't not go to school! Employers will have to set your work schedule around that. You can also *request* other days or times to stay free, but know that the more demands you have to make on a potential employer, the less likely they are going to be to hire you. They want people with a lot of availability, not someone whose schedule is super limited. Whether or not they hire you is up to them, and whether or not you're willing to be flexible with your schedule is up to you. Somewhere in the middle is where you both compromise, hopefully. Also know that some types of jobs *require* a more flexible schedule than others, or will require longer shifts that your schedule can't accommodate. So before you even bother applying, it's not a bad idea to ask someone at that job (preferably a manager) what the hours are like and consider whether or not that job will work with your schedule. Yes, most jobs want you to have *some* amount of experience, but many jobs will hire people and train them if it's worth it. Being a grocery store bagger doesn't take a lot of training, and cashier takes marginally more, so they are more willing to hire younger, inexperienced people. The trade off is that they won't pay you much, either. That's how getting a *career* generally goes: work for a job that doesn't pay you much but rewards you with experience. You then move on to a better-paying job that requires more experience, which you gained at your first job; or, you move up in the same company as you gain experience there and they give you more responsibility. As you're building your resume, know that "experience" means a lot of things, and if you show *potential* they'll be willing to train you. You should present yourself as someone who learns quickly and works hard. They are comparing how much it will cost to train you with how much you will be worth after training - show them you will be worth training. On your resume, that means showing extra-curricular activities and leadership, decent grades, and letters from authorities like teachers and coaches. If you can show that you are a capable learner and hard worker in what you *have* done (mostly school), you are demonstrating that you will be a great employee even when doing tasks you have *not* yet done. Pay depends on the job and your employer. Many places are going more and more to paperless pay stubs, which means direct-deposit to a bank account. IIRC, they are required by law to have alternative options for people who do not have a bank account, but...you're 17, you need to go get a bank account. Now is a good time. They may still give you a paper check that you have to deposit. Although you are *very unlikely* to get this sort of job, *some* jobs pay you straight up with cash, or the customer or client you're dealing with pays you directly, and it's up to you to declare all the relevant taxes. That is incredibly unlikely to be the case for you. That said, many jobs also involve a lot of tips, which are usually cash, and it *is* up to you to declare those tips on your taxes (doing your taxes is another ELI5, but mostly your employer will probably handle most of that except for filing your taxes in April and whatnot...but again, different ELI5; side note, you can usually get away with not declaring *all* of your cash tips, but...the IRS pays attention to that shit, so try that at your own risk). How often you get paid will depend on your employer, but it will probably be every other week, maybe every week, possibly (but not probably) once a month. Wisdom for the future: start saving money now. Get into the habit. Your instinct may be to treat all of your paycheck as spending money, but that's not a great way to treat your money. I'd set aside *at least* one third of your paycheck just to save it for when you *need* it. As an adult, you'll likely try to budget one third of your paycheck for living expenses (food, rent/mortgage, insurance, etc.), one third on "spending money" (your car, going out to eat, new phone, etc.), and one third saving for "retirement/[getting cancer]( URL_2 )". You don't have to worry about all that yet (I hope!) but it's a good idea to start getting into that mindset. Absolutely spend some money on just random awesome stuff to reward yourself for working hard! But save some, too, for the future, even if it's just the future of two months from now when you want a new game console or whatever. Also wise, [**learn your rights as an employee**]( URL_1 )! Seriously! You don't need to have a textbook understanding of everything, but read up on your federal rights and your state rights, and having a general idea of OSHA guidelines is also not a bad idea. Off the top of my head: * You cannot be made to work off the clock. If you are hourly, you should be on the clock any time you are expected to be working. If an employer gives you a hard time about doing "little things" after you're clocked out or before you're clocked in, they are stealing from you. Your time is valuable, even if your time is only worth minimum wage. (Flip side: if you're on the clock, you have sold your time and it no longer belongs to you, it belongs to your employer. Be a good employee, work when you're being paid to work.) * Not only is it illegal for your employer to punish you for discussing your pay with other employees, it's illegal for them to even *suggest* that you shouldn't do it. No one is obligated to discuss *their* pay with you, it's generally considered rude to ask how much someone makes (which is stupid, but hey it's the world we're in), but you can *never* be punished by your employer for talking about it with others. * You cannot be required to handle human waste or fluids (blood, feces, etc.) without proper safety equipment - that does not just mean rubber gloves, it means basically a hazmat suit. That shit (literally) is dangerous. If there's poo where it doesn't belong and your employer tells you to clean it up, unless they give you a hazmat suit you don't have to do it. * You are legally required to get breaks (depending on the length of your shift). It depends on your state, though. Look into it. If they start eroding away your break, asking you to clock back in a little early, it's probably not a good job. Of course, sometimes you do absolutely have obligations, but your break time is yours, not theirs. If they start taking that away from you, they are, again, stealing your time and probably breaking the law (probably - look it up to be sure). Final words of wisdom: pick your battles. You *will* get an employer who gets you to spend a few minutes cleaning up after you clock out every once and a while. You *will* get an employer that doesn't want you talking about your pay. And as much as they can't *legally* punish you or fire you, they can make your life difficult in a lot of ways. Don't make an ass of yourself, keep your head down, and know when you need to stand up for your rights and when it genuinely isn't worth it. Is potentially losing your job worth fighting for that extra dollar a week that you worked off the clock? Probably not. Incidentally, check and see if you're in a [right-to-work]( URL_0 ) state because if you are, employers have a lot more power to fire you so tread carefully. Good luck out there!
Let's say you get sick and you develop antibodies against the bacteria or virus. A small portion of those antibodies may inappropriately recognize proteins in the shellfish and activate your immune system. Kinda like someone calling 911 on a thief with a red hat, then the police put out an alert about a thief in a red hat and they apprehend anyone also is wearing a red hat. When you have those severe allergic reactions, it's because of a specific kind of immune response mediated by IgE. Normally, IgM, IgG are activated, but sometimes activated cells switch from IgM/G to IgE, depending on its environment. It'd be like someone seeing the thief with the red hat, but because it's West Virginia and there's a lot of heroin overdoses, instead of calling 911 (IgG/IgM), they think he's a drug dealer and call up the DEA (IgE). And the DEA shoots the thief and blows up his house, and the whole nation begins freaking out over drug dealing and excessive use of force because it was caught on camera. So what would have been a local allergic reaction (like asthma) involves the whole body. Normally, your body recognizes that stuff you eat, despite being foreign and in your body, is A-OK. Your stomach tells your immune system to ignore it, but that sometimes doesn't happen.
Because that's how the laws of physics works. In order to make your arms move, for example, you need energy. There's no way of making something move without using energy. And energy is not infinite. When we use up too much energy, we feel tired, because that's the way our brain tells us that we need to stop what we're doing and go rest or eat something, since we don't have much energy left to do it. I assume you're asking about the actual feeling of tiredness rather than lack of energy. It's not something known for sure, but most likely it's for us to know that we are low on energy. As a living being, it is much safer for us to actively seek some place safe to rest instead of dropping on the floor when we actually run out of energy. The dropping levels of energy could be due to our bodies attempting to conserve energy to stay awake longer, or it could be why our eyes get sore, to force us to stop the energy intensive activities. As to why we need to sleep to regain energy is even more of a mystery, it's simply how we evolved as high leveled animals. Mostly all animals sleep in some form or another, even those that may not seem like it. Dolphins sleep with half of the brain at a time, alternating between the two due to the dangerous environment they live in, and the need for sleep. Giraffes in nature sleep for about 30 minutes at a time, but will still lie down when they are sick or in a region where they seem as absolutely safe, such as in captivity.
Tensor tympani muscle. Connected to eardrum. Usually involuntarily activated to dampen sound of chewing. Cheers When you temporarily lose your hearing notice if you are also clenching your jaw intensely or yawning. Either causes changes in your ear canal, mainly the eustachian tube (a pressure regulator). This causes dampening of sound to balance the changes in pressure I usually just hear a fairly loud, low, rushing water type of sound when I stretch or yawn. Is that what we're talking about, or am I weird? I realized that I could voluntarily do this as a young kid by yawning. I would yawn and feel it in my ears and just taught me self I could do it anytime. I would do it if I didn't want to hear something and it wasn't polite to cover my ears and I'm mind blown that it's actually a thing other people can do Also, an important thing to be noted is you are probably flexing a muscle called the tensor tympani. It is a tiny muscle in your ear that holds onto the bones in your ear which conduct sound. The ear drum kind of works like a hammer beating on a drum and the tensor tympani muscle is like attaching a string to the hammer, which only allows it to hit the drum so hard. The entire purpose of this muscle is to tense up before loud sounds in order to protect the inner workings of your ear. When you stretch in the morning, this inadvertently tenses this muscle, which you can "hear" as a woosh, or it may just be quieting all other outside sounds. This muscle is usually under involuntary control, however some people can also do it voluntarily. Just like blinking is automatic, but you can also do it if you think about it. Similarly, whenever I do several minutes of intense stretching I always get incredibly cold, like all the heat was just wrung out of my muscles and I literally shake and shiver. Anyone experience anything like this and/or have an explanation?
The 16:9 size was chosen as a compromise between the wider shape of most movies, and the narrower shape of older TV shows. This way neither one looks ridiculous. In the beginning, Edison decided that movies should be 4:3. Then television was developed and they followed the 4:3 convention. As television got popular movies started experimenting with wider screens to differentiate films from TV. After some very wide movies, cinema standardized on a few formats around 2.35:1 and 2.4:1. This made for a very small letter boxed picture on 4:3 TVs. When the HD standard was in development, it was decided to choose an aspect ratio that minimized the size of black bars required for 4:3 content and 2.35:1 content, which was 16:9. However once broadcasters shifted to digital broadcasts, they quickly expanded to use the full 16:9 aspect.
Primarily through dehydration. It is difficult to take in enough water to combat dehydration for sufficiently bad diarrhea. It's even worse when the water source itself is the source of the illness. Dehydration, hyponatremia, and hypokalemia. That is, losing-and-not-replacing too much water, sodium, and potassium. In the case of Civil War era dysentery, it would have been the salt deficiencies that killed most patients. Doctors, or doctor-surgeons, had by that point been convinced of the notion that if you were thirsty (as diarrhea patients usually were), you should be allowed to drink some water. But the didn't know about the electrolytes (salts), because, even if you gave patients salt in their water, they still died. The problem was that sodium and potassium aren't absorbed quickly from drinks unless there's a little bit of sugar present. This is ostensibly why Gatorade and drinks like it have so much sugar (really, though, you only need a little bit; Gatorade has so much sugar to make it taste better). If the army's surgeons had known then what we know now, they could have treated patients by giving them water with a spoonful each of sugar (or honey, or molassas, or or or), salt, and wood ashes per gallon.
The animal can play dead. I did a movie and the animal had to act like it was being killed, while fake guts and stuff were put on top of it. It was eaten by a zombie, btw. So. The animal doesn't actually get hurt. It acts...just like an actor. Pretty much the same way they show humans being harmed without CGI - practical special effects and acting!
Anyone can nominate someone for an honour, and a series of [committees]( URL_0 ) reviews the nominations. They make recommendations to the Prime Minister, who makes recommendations to the Queen. The exception is the Royal Victorian Order, which is given for personal service to the monarch.
They are hurt all of the time. People die surfing waves like that. That is one reason those shots are so amazing. Pros though know techniques to try and not die but at the end of the day a wave smashing you into a reef is going to hurt. Certain waves the goal is to dive deep and avoid getting thrown over the top again. Also in that first few seconds of fall the goal is to get into the water and not skip over the top like a rock, because if you don't go into the water you will end up "over the falls" and smashed into whatever is under that water that caused that giant wave.
First, the condition known as the "common cold" is a viral infection by any of several hundred different species of virus. The rhinoviruses (literally "nose viruses") are the most common culprit, but there are other viruses which can produce the same symptoms. Second, if you're asking where the actual viruses that infect us come from, the answer is "The surrounding environment, primarily surface contact." Someone infected with a cold virus will shed live viruses from their nose and eyes. If they wipe their hands, they'll get viruses on their hands, which they can then transfer to other surfaces (including people) by touching them. Cold viruses can survive for the better part of a day on an exposed surface, making them pretty robust as far as these things go. This is why you're supposed to wash/sanitize your hands if you have a cold! Third, if you're asking where viruses as a category come from. . . you may as well ask where life itself comes from. Viruses are thought of as "pseudo-living", in that they are far too. . . *rambunctious* to be considered inanimate. If nothing else, they contain genetic material and are capable of a form of reproduction. Yet they lack some pretty important characteristics of truly living things (e.g., cellular structure, a metabolism, etc.). There are certainly theories, but at root, nobody has claim to genuine knowledge there. As far as anybody can tell, viruses have existed as long as life itself. Figure out the origin of one, and you'll basically figure out the origin of the other. The nose contains shelf-like structures called turbinates, which help trap particles entering the nasal passages. Material deposited in the nose is transported by ciliary action to the back of the throat in 10-15 minutes. Cold viruses are believed to be carried to the back of the throat where they are deposited in the area of the adenoid. The adenoid is a lymph gland structure that contains cells to which cold viruses attach. URL_0
Lots of people confuse internet speed (measured in megabits) with file transfer speed (measured in megabytes). One megabyte is eight megabits.
It is your pharyngoltympanic tube (Eustachian tube) opening. It connects your middle ear to your throat. Opening it is also how you "pop your eardrum" or equalize pressure within the middle ear. Often, the bones in the jaw's joint, which is right near the ears, is not a nearly perfect sphere like it should be. The rubbing and catching of one part in the other makes the clicking noise. If it is painful, you have a problem and should see an oral surgeon. They call it TMJ (which is really just it's abbreviated name - tempo-mandibular joint) and some people needs surgery to alleviate the pain.
Computers don't get slower. Software just gets more and more demanding, since it's always designed for newer computers. And even if you factory reset the computer, you're going to be getting newer versions of the software, which run more slowly on the old hardware. There are multiple reasons for this: 1. A lot of it is perception. Software is going to get more demanding over time, and your computer will slowly become outdated. 2. The more your drive is fragmented, the slower your computer is at reading from it. Modern computers are less affected by this, as they do defragmentation during any idle time. Also, SSDs have their own way of dealing with fragmentation, and are generally way faster tha HDDs anyway. 3. Dust and degradation of thermal pastes. As your computer gets worse at dissipating heat, elements such as the CPU or GPU will begin to generate more heat. While modern CPU's are rated for some pretty high temps without performance loss, constant overheating will impact performance. 4. General wear and tear on parts. This generally has a minuscule impact on performance, as most parts either work or they don't. Dust can also heat up your computer to a point that it runs slower on purpose to prevent damages. But usually it's the software updates fault. (Assuming Windows 7 - Procedure may be similar for other versions, for example, I know it is very similar or identical on Vista.) •Open the Start menu. (Windows key does this, if you don't know how.) •Type msconfig into the search box in the lower-left and hit enter. (You could instead type msconfig.exe into the command prompt.) •In the 'General' tab (should be open already) select the 'Selective startup' option, if it isn't already. •Go to the 'Services' tab. •Check the 'Hide all Microsoft services' checkbox. •You'll be presented with a list of programs that your computer runs on start-up that are part of other programs you have installed. None of these are needed for your computer to work, and many of them keep running long after startup (thus slowing it down.) Disabling them may cause other programs you have installed to load more slowly when you start them, or to break entirely, but Windows will keep working, and you can always come back here to re-enable things. •Un-check the boxes of any programs you don't need. If you don't know what it is, un-check it. •Go to the 'Startup' tab. •Un-check the boxes of any programs you don't need. If you don't know what it is, un-check it. •Click the 'Apply' button or the 'Ok' button at the bottom of the window, and close the window if it doesn't do it automatically. SOURCE: [WhyIsTheNameGone]( URL_0 ) I think what you are referring to is (for the most part) mitigated by switching from HDD to SSD. when you install, uninstall, update, patch, copy etc. stuff it gets fragmented, so most of the stuff that computer uses and needs fast access to looks something like that (A - what we want to read; X - other data): AXXAAXXXXAXXXXAXAXXXXAXAAAAXXXXXXAXXXXXXXAXXXXX.. ..and so on so instead of just grabbing the needed data in one go, system needs to find every fragment. HDDs have latency and seek times and all other fancy things that state how long it would take to read one specified fragment of the disk - in human terms it's very small amount of time, but it all adds up.. It's like you got sent to the store for every item separately instead of all of them at once. The store may be 30 seconds away, but if you need to buy 100 items you'll spend an hour and 40 minutes just walking the distance normally you can hardly notice SSDs may be fragmented as well but, let's say (as far as this example is concerned) they don't care and have "instantaneous" access to every fragment My PC for instance (thanks to SSD) is responsive as soon as the desktop is displayed, which means that it of course still loads few stuff in the background (some of which is purposefully delayed by the system) but when I click on chrome it starts immediately. e: word There are many things that can cause this. 1. A lack of hardware work done on the computer. Fans can slow down and the computer will over heat easier. And dust can accumulate on the heat sinks which make them less effective. 2. Hard drives have limited use cycles and run worse as they fill up. Your computer is slowly piling up data all the time without you knowing about it. And even if you delete it, those fragments are still on the hard drive and bog it down.
How would you get it there? Pound for pound, going to the moon is expensive. Really expensive. How would you service them? Getting a technician up there is really really expensive. How would you protect them? Earth has mild temperatures and magnetic protection from solar flares. The Moon doesn't. We could but it would be prohibitively expensive to both ship up the materials as well as construct the dishes. Not to mention the cost of maintenance. All that cost and we would not get an appreciable improvement in quality - at least not one worth that effort.
You each got 50% of your dad's genes, some overlap and some don't, some get activated earlier than others.
So, we actually moved a house and the process is pretty cool. We bought a house at auction for less than 3000 dollars and moved it. This was about 15 years ago. Step 1 remove the roof. Labeling the pieces for easy reassembly. Step 2 depending on how many stories the house is you place supporting beams along the floor joists of each level, ours was a 1 story with a loft so it was a bit wonky. Step 3 section the house into parts that will fit on a traditional flatbed. Ours was divided into 4 sections Step 4) the actual drive is planned out ahead of time with the specific dimensions of each piece at the time we had to pay 50 dollars per powerline that had to be taken down and put back up. Step 5) deliver and put it on the foundation and put it back together. Edit: we moved the house over 20 miles so that may be a factor
If you're just saying it, from a layman perspective, both are subjective. They basically mean whatever you want (unless you're talking about dictionary definitions). Now if a psychiatrist or psychologist says "You are under a lot of stress" and "You are suffering from anxiety", then we're talking medical terms and in *that* case they are radically different. "Stress" will basically mean more or less the same as what you think - there's a lot on your mind, you're under a lot of pressure, etc. "Anxiety", though, is a specific condition. Or rather, several conditions. They are characterised by excessive worry to the point where it impacts your life. Stress can be a factor leading to anxiety. Stress: - Response to demands placed on you - Usually a specific, discreet situation or event - Subsides when the situation is over Anxiety: - Response to worries or fears - Focuses on thoughts about something (i.e. what if...) - May not be as easy to figure out where it's coming from
Pi is an irrational number. By definition of irrationals this means that is can't be represented as the result of a division between two integers, i.e. there are no whole numbers x & y such that pi = x/y. One property of the irrational numbers is that if you try to write them as decimal fractions, you end up with an *infinite* and *non-repeating* sequence of digits. The same is true for every irrational numbers, such as pi, e and the square root of 2, 3 and 5 (and every other integer that isn't a square number). On the other hand, when you write rational numbers as decimal fractions, you either end up with a finite sequence of digits (for example 1/8 = 0.125) or an infinite but repeating sequence (for example 1/7 = 0.142857142857142857...). There is [proof that pi is irrational]( URL_0 ) however it's too complicated for ELI5.
Black does not necessarily absorb heat the best. It absorbs light best. The color of different materials comes from what colors they absorb and what colors they reflect. White reflecting all visible colors and black absorbing all visible colors. The color spectrum extends in both ends. Heat at the temperatures you would typically set an oven to is in the infrared spectrum. So the ideal paint to use in an oven is black but white in infrared. The reason you want it black is because it hides all the dirty stains from the food. The heat will make it hard to remove and white paint will make it stick out more. So you want your cooking surfaces to be dark. There are also lots of other things to consider. The paint have to be able to withstand the heat and the different chemicals in the food and in the cleaning agents, it have to withstand hard mechanical cleaning so you can clean it with a scrub, it have to be safe to prepare food in and lastly it have to be cheap to coat the ovens in it.
Two different reasons. Capsaicin as found in most peppers causes a runny nose because it irritates the membrane and mucous production increases to clean itself. Cold air causes a runny nose because cold air tends to be dry air, and lungs need to be wet inside in order to work. So you get a runny nose to keep your lungs wet. In addition to this, wet air from your lungs gets cold as it leaves and condenses into the nose, causing more fluid there on a cold day than on a hot one.
There are people who tend to graveyards called "burial ground custodians" or "cemetery workers". They collect these things after a period of time and throw them away as garbage.
Depending on the product and company a lifetime supply would mean a certain amount each year for so many years. In this case vans which would probably be one pair per year. If the t & c stated 30 years for example it would be a total of 30 pairs in way of a voucher per pair maybe,then that person would give over the vouchers to the charity.
Anxiety/stress are the result of your sympathetic nervous system being activated (fight or flight response). When we are threatened we experience a variety of physical effects, e.g. increased heart rate, GI upset, jittery muscles, *rapid shallow breathing*. This helps us fight the threat or run away from it. Helpful when facing down a sabre-toothed tiger; not so much when we can't speak to a large group. The parasympathetic nervous system works in opposition to the sympathetic nervous system. It's the "all is well" setting for your bod- relaxation in terms of muscle and heart rate, *slow deep abdominal breathing*. What intentional deep breathing does is activate the parasympathetic nervous system, even if there is an anxiety-provoking event. Basically you are overriding the stress response with the "nothing to worry about" system. Since you can't simultaneously be threatened and unthreatened, your body takes the cue from the slow breathing to reduce or eliminate entirely the stress response.
You brain has a part that tests reality. When you see something weird, like a man with three arms, it says, "whoa, that's not right, better take a closer look." So you do, it turns out to be two people standing at a funny angle, and all is well. When you dream, the part of your brain that tests reality is less active. You don't question weird things, you just accept that you lost your shoes on the train and that means now you get to pitch for the Yankees. The problem is, when you try to remember things, your brain needs to put it into a narrative of related events. If what happened in your dream doesn't make sense, all you are left with is a bunch of random impressions...which is mostly what dreams are anyway.
I just finished up The User Illusion and while the author didn't talk very much about dreams this was my takeaway from it: Your consciousness while dreaming is very different than when you are awake. In dreams, you lose any distinction between yourself and your surroundings, whereas when awake, you seperate yourself from the world and act according to how you could be perceived by others. Dreams don't have that limitation and allow you to simply be (as part of and within the world). In dreams, your mind has no veto power over your body (no ego) and your instincts are the only form of free will. From *Leviathan* by Thomas Hobbes: > The imaginations of them that sleep are those we call ‘dreams.’ And these also, as also all other imaginations, have been before, either totally or by parcels, in the sense. And, because in sense, the brain and nerves, which are the necessary organs of sense, are so benumbed in sleep as not easily to be moved by the action of external objects, there can happen in sleep no imagination, and therefore no dream, but what proceeds from the agitation of the inward parts of man’s body; which inward parts, for the connection they have with the brain and other organs, when they be distempered, do keep the same in motion; whereby the imaginations there formerly made, appear as if a man were waking; **saving that the organs of sense being now benumbed, so as there is no new object which can master and obscure them with a more vigorous impression, a dream must needs be more clear in this silence of sense than our waking thoughts.** And hence it cometh to pass that it is a hard matter, and by many thought impossible, to distinguish exactly between sense and dreaming. For my part, when I consider that in dreams I do not often nor constantly think of the same persons, places, objects, and actions, that I do waking, nor remember so long a train of coherent thoughts, dreaming, as at other times, and because waking I often observe the absurdity of dreams, but never dream of the absurdities of my waking thoughts, I am well satisfied, that, > being awake, I know I dream not, though when I dream I think myself awake. **Real Eli-5**: When there is an overwhelmingly bright light in your field of vision, this makes other lights appear dimmer. E.g. the sun preventing vision of the stars. Likewise, during the day, your sense impressions of the world (vision, hearing, touch etc.) are quite vigorous and incredibly constant, "dimming" the vividness of thought. At night, when the more bodily senses are sleeping, and the only thing you are doing is dreaming, your dreams appear much more vivid, just as the stars appear much brighter. Another way of pointing this out is that there is an inverse relationship between the vividness of a "day-dream" and how much attention you're currently investing in the environment around you. Every comment here should have a "hypothetically" placed in front of it. The reality is that we simply don't know enough about dreams. Why do they exist? What function do they actually serve? What are we remembering when we wake up? What does a dream actually look like? None of this has been scientifically verified because you can't read someone's dreams, and the technology and neuroscience to study this just isn't there yet. Any other answer you've gotten that puts forth their opinion as fact is just being misleading. It's a very interesting question, but unfortunately we don't have an answer yet. Source: Doctoral student in clinical psychology with an emphasis in clinical neuropsychology. Edit: emphasis from clinical psych to clinical neuropsychology (whoopsie on the redundancy) Gonna drop a dream related question here too if it's ok: What would cause someone to never achieve their goal in dreams? Is it normal for everyone? As in. If I dream I'm climbing a mountain I never reach the top. If I dream of exploring, I get lost. If I'm close to getting a girl or anything else desirable I never succeed. All my life I've had very vivid dreams and a few occurences of lucid dreaming. I dream a lot and tend to remember many of them. One thing that always struck me as depressing is that in dreams I never make the jump, never reach the goal, in some dreams I die, and in many dreams my teeth get broken. Note that I'm mostly excluding nightmares here. Even in benevolent dreams, I never get what I want. Because your brain releases a chemical while you sleep.."DMT" which causes you to trip balls, but your body also has things that block the trippy chemicals "MAO" (MAO inhibitors) This does not happen when you think or imagine Dreaming is characterised by a unique brain activity pattern where dream hallucinations are derived by a diffuse activation in the cerebral cortex. One important note is that some parts of the frontallobe from which our self awereness originates from is inhibited during sleep which is why dreams can be so bizarre and vivid without us reacting to it before we wake up and become concious. Strange. I don't find dreams memorable at all. That is, it takes only a few minutes to forget almost everything I've dreamed except vague details. Honestly, if you were told you can be put to sleep for 24 hours at a time, would you do it if you knew you would have cool dreams you can create? Psychologist here. We don't know. Nobody does. A lot of new age mystics and pop psychology authors will tell you they know, but they don't. We can tell you about the physiology of sleep, how the brain changes function during different stages, how the body reacts, but dreaming? Honestly, your guess is as good as ours. But how awesome is it that we still have so much mystery left in how our brains work? I personally don't find my dreams to compare to my thoughts as described. In fact I would more likely ask why they are the exact opposite: dreams not vivid, thoughts (imaginative thought) much more so and far, far more memorable than dreams. Perhaps what you call dreams/thinking isn't the same for me. It wasn't that long ago that the results from a trial of mouse experiments got published. Mice got detectors surgically implanted on their brains. Then they go through a maze. The detectors only read if a signal fires over a particular region of the mouse brain. So yes-no, on-off, frontal, parietal, occipital or whatever. Then the pattern of signals over time gets compiled. Mice that run one maze have similar but different patterns as other mice in the same maze, & different patterns for different mazes. But here's the dream part. The mice would reproduce their daily maze pattern as they slept, repeatedly with each circadian rhythm, & faster than in awake time. It's like they were reliving & reinforcing their days memories with the dreams they were having. From these experiments, the research team was trying to link memory & learning with getting sleep afterwards. It looked promising in many ways. While you sleep, your body releases a chemical named Dimethyltriptamine (DMT) in very small doses, which is a hallucinogen and that allows for the more vivid feeling. More importantly, why can I not remember my dreams except the PTSD related ones? I ONLY remember the dreams I wake up from and the only ones I wake up from are the blow-upy ones or the shooty ones. We model the external world in our brains. The level of detail we perceive is governed by the limitations of our brains. The sophisticated processing of stimulus into the representation we recognise whilst awake can run whilst we are asleep. Our conscious thoughts, framed in a consensus language, pale in comparison. Of interest is our ability to model behaviourally unpredictable characters in dreams. Reflecting our ongoing modelling of any social encounter with such same aspects of our brains. I'm not 100% sure if this really answers your question all that well but here goes. Dreaming is more vivid and memorable IMO because it is the result of a psychedelic compound your brain releases when you are in REM sleep. The chemical DMT is what causes the phenomenon of dreaming and your brain only releases this during REM (rapid eye movement) sleep. DMT is short for Dimethyltryptamine or there is an official term with N,N-Dimethyltryptamine. It is responsible for the act of you dreaming. When you are thinking, it is not a result of a chemical compound but rather ordinary functions of the brain. Thinking processes I believe (when regarding action at least) involves sending electrical impulses through pathways. There is also a drug that is just a high concentration of DMT. When you smoke it when you are sober, what happens is your brain struggles to grasp hold and "maintain reality." As you get high from DMT, a layer of hallucinations take effect but since you are not sleeping, what is going on is your dreams and your perception of reality collide. And since when you are high on DMT, your attentiveness and ability to see and recognize tiny details you wouldn't have noticed (like being able to see every cell of your exterior skin). People always talk about their DMT highs as very vivid and very clearly detailed. Also the type of things you'd see WOULD traumatize you (not in a bad way). I will not condone use of drugs; this is certainly not for everyone. I've seen people try it and come back perfectly fine and I've seen some people go insane. A lot of people claim when high on DMT, they meet God or these extradimensional beings that can radiate psychedelic aura from themselves. The same things that cause you to hallucinate and see these vivid detailed images could be the reason why dreams > thoughts.
Because the dark side doesn't send out (reflect, really) enough light to be able to shine through the blue light that is "created" in our atmosphere, while the bright side of the moon does. It's the same reason the rest of the dark sky isn't showing. It's not bright enough to be visible through the general brightness of the sky. Think of it like if you have a sheet of white paper with a black object drawn on. If you then put a layer of blue transparent plastic over that, the white paper will look blue, but the black object will still be as black as before. It's sort of like that, but with inverse colors. Because the blue of the sky is caused by the Earth's atmosphere, not the backdrop of space. And the Earth's atmosphere is between the moon and your eye.
The standard deviation is, roughly speaking, the average distance from the mean of each of your data points. However, your data can be greater than or less than the mean, so you can't just directly take the average of all those distances. Instead, we square all of those discrepancies so all the signs cancel out and they produce only positive numbers. Then we can average those squared values, getting the variance, and take the square root at the end to produce what we were actually looking for, a metric to describe how far your data points were off the mean without regards to whether they were too high or too low.
Paint is a liquid when you apply it and after a bit becomes a solid. What is happening is that the paint is dissolved in a solvent, which evaporates off as it is applied, allowing it to solidify. If you were to apply another solvent capable of dissolving the paint again, it will redissolve. The lemongrass essential oil was able to redissolve the paint. The chemistry rule of "like dissolves like": oils will dissolve oil paints and water will dissolve water based paints (think watercolors). It's because of the molecul's properties having affinities for eachother.
Iron Age Scandinavians (a.k.a. the Vikings) huddled in their long houses during the winter months along with their serfs and animals. Their idea of an apocalypse was a never-ending winter, so that gives you an idea what they thought of that. Short answer... they sorta hibernated. Winters were miserable. They were just as bad as they are now. The difference is that we have heating, access to super fast travel, and electricity and stuff... So we pretty much just power through it like it's just a chilly few days that happen together. For the most part, they'd prepare all year for the winter, get as much heavy clothing and reinforce/make as many structures as they could and they'd pretty much chill. Then when the spring and summer showed up, they'd go back out on the water. Native Americans would roam across north america during the spring/summer/fall and then all bunker down during the winter with all their stored jerky and hides etc. It's pretty much the same with sea faring cultures, but with the sea instead of the plains. Generally people avoided taking sea-voyages in winter - the Vikings generally went out during the summer to raid or trade at sea and would stick to the land for the colder months. The Vikings also covered their boats with their sails creating a sort of tent to protect them during rough weather.
Sometimes dolphins will beach in large groups when they are sick. There have been large stranding events after explosions or loud sonor pings which blind the dolphins ability to see using sound. I worked in marine mammal rescue. In almost all cases they are dead or extremely ill/weak when they wash ashore - I.E. they have no control over it. Perfectly healthy Whales will actually beach themselves due to noise pollution. "In the oceans, where distances can be long and visibility can be short, many animal species rely on sound to communicate, navigate, and monitor their surroundings. The haunting cries and clicks of whales are both beautiful and vital to their survival. Using "songs" cetaceans can communicate with one another across several hundred kilometers of ocean. Whale sonar allows the animals to find food, safely travel along irregular coastlines, and migrate to and from breeding and feeding grounds. Some whales uses bursts of loud noise to drive and confuse their prey. These activities are becoming more and more difficult as manmade noise in the sea has increased dramatically. Ship traffic, oil and gas exploration, scientific research activities, and the use of military sonar and communications equipment have caused an increase in ambient marine noise of two orders of magnitude in the last 60 years. Recent studies suggest that noise pollution can harm whales directly by damaging their hearing, and in extreme cases, causing internal bleeding and death. More commonly, it appears that excessive or prolonged noise can cause behavioral changes that interfere with the health and survival of the animals. In this activity, you will consider one type of whale behavior that has been linked to manmade noise, stranding. When whales strand, or beach themselves, they often die. Death may be due to the factors that drove them ashore initially, or to exposure and dehydration and organ damage caused by the unsupported weight of their own bodies." URL_0
Early life. Of those with the potential for perfect pitch, those that develop it do because their environments provide for it. I saw a statistic that claimed 60% of the chinese students in a study met the criteria for absolute pitch whereas 14% of americans did. So far as I know, this was less to do with dramatically different genes and more to do with the fact that their language is much more dependent on pitch (musical tone) and so those who potentially could have it, had a greater chance of it manifesting. English, of course has tone too, but in Mandarin (and vietnamese too) use pitch as part of the actual word whereas we use it for emphasis on top of words that themselves do not depend upon tone. Similarly, musical training at a young age increases the likelihood. I looked it up to be sure just now (can't link because I'm on mobile) and you can't develop absolute, or perfect, pitch. However, you can develop relative pitch after years and years of study. Relative pitch is being able to tell any note in reference to another pitch. So if someone tells you to sing a note, you can, but you need to know another note first. If you develop relative pitch, you can kinda cheat and memorize one pitch, then be able to identify any others based on it. I had a professor like that. He let us all believe he had perfect pitch because his relative pitch was so good.
Yellowstone sits over a massive hotspot and is a supervolcano. While it would be very bad if it erupted, the danger is rather hilariously overblown by Hollywood. Granted, Wyoming and parts of Idaho and Montana would be gone, and the states immediately east and southeast of Wyoming (so, Colorado, the Dakotas, Nebraska, Iowa, Minnesota, and Kansas) would have a lot of ashfall and a slight but still significant global temperature shift for a few years (honestly, less than 5 years), that would be it. Anything West of the Rockies, or East of the Appalachians, would be basically unscathed other than a very light dusting of ash. It would be less of a "everyone on Earth is going to die" and more of a "North America is going to kind of suck for the next decade" kind of thing.
Actually the two founders Steve Huffman and Alexis Ohanian made a bunch of fake accounts to post links on other websites guiding to their newly created website that they just put online with the help of a start up company. The rest is history. Summer of 2005, Paul Graham (one of our investors) wrote a blog post and linked to us in it a few weeks after we launched the site. That was our first flood of traffic and a lot of those folks stuck around. I'm pretty sure it started as a place for people in the tech industry to share articles. You couldn't even comment at first - in fact, the very first comment of all time was in response to the post announcing that you could comment, and it was someone complaining that it would ruin reddit. Someone will post the link shortly I'm sure! Another thing, subreddits didn't exist either. I think the original got moved to /r/reddit when subs were introduced. Edit: spelling This is my 10th year here, but not on this account. I started at URL_1 and found Reddit on a news-aggregator aggregator ( URL_0 ) It contained Fark, Reddit and Digg, among others. Fark faded, and Digg collapsed. Many ended up here. If you want a feel for what Reddit was like in the "olden days", check out URL_2 .
It's more that we're really good at picking up subtle mistakes in humans, and fantasy beasts have no reference, so its a lot harder for them to look wrong. Probably because we are so adapted to human skin/tone/etc. that our brains can pick out what is real and what is fake. Since we can't actually conceptualize what alien skin would be, real or fake is no different to us. Think about it like being scared as a child by a man dressed in a costume, over time we learn and accept that it is fake and not a threat (except clowns fuck that shit). When was the last time you compared an Orc IRL to WoW? It's a phenomenon known as the uncanny valley. We are very good at noticing when something is off with our fellow human beings.
The way Fortune took the numbers from oecd and converted it to hours per week is not taking holidays out of the calculation. They simply divided the number by 52. According to a slightly older article from the FAZ, Germans were working 41.1 hours per week on average: URL_0 There might have been a rise of very short part-time work which skews the statistic,between then and 2015, but I doubt that it is that much. I personally work 8 hours per day at 5 days a week, so 40 hours, which is a very common working schedule for Germany. It's not as if, in any given week, Germans work 26 hours. A full-time job in Germany is 40 hours a week, but Germans get mandatory paid leave, and a lot of public holidays (and those who work in a profession that means they have to work on a public holiday -- like nurses, for example -- then get another day off in lieu). Also, Germans get mandatory sick leave, maternity leave and so on. Added to that, since the 26.37 hours/week figure is an *average*, a robust welfare benefits system means low wage-earners are not taking two full-time jobs just to try to make ends meet, and that also affects the figures.
Imagine a classroom with three rows of seats. Suppose for example, that there are 3 students in the first row, 5 in the second and 6 in the third. This is called a distribution, one of students into rows of a classroom. We do the same with particles and how they arrange themselves into various states in a system. Typically this is the energy level, however an energy level can be called degenerate if more than one particle occupies that certain level at the same time. In the above classroom example, if you only looked at rows, all three rows were degenerate because they had multiple students in them. However, if you looked at individual seats, each seat had either one student in it, or none (a free seat), so no seats were degenerate. Now, as far as this *distribution* of particles into states is concerned, we have two behaviors, two different distributions. One is the Fermi-Dirac distribution, and the other is the Bose-Einstein distribution. These are both functions that describe how many particles occupy a certain level, and they vary based on system temperature. These two different behaviors and distributions give us two types of particle, one that obeys one behavior and another that obeys the other. Consequently, we have *fermions* for the first, and *bosons* for the second. Turns out that the key difference between these two types of particle is a quantum property called spin. Bosons have a spin expressed by a whole number (integer), while fermions have "half-spin" (1/2, 3/2 etc.). The reason why the distributions are different is because fermions cannot occupy the same "quantum state" as another fermion, while bosons can occupy the same state, multiple at once. By quantum state we mean a full description of a particle's current "properties". The first is energy level, so on a first approximation fermions will have to avoid having the same energy level as other fermions. They can occupy the same level, but only if all fermions on that level have different values of spin. Further, if they can be differentiated by another quantum property, they could also have the same spin, as long as that other property differs. Bosons don't have this restriction. A certain energy level can be occupied by any number of bosons regardless of their spin. It's a bit like allowing the seats in a classroom to hold more than one student at a time, and, in fact, potentially an infinite number of students in a seat, with no upper restriction. The reason why temperature comes into play is it changes the distribution of energy levels. Normally, each particle wants to occupy the lowest energy state possible. Note that fermions can't all just go to the lowest level because of the exclusion principle forced onto them, so they will only go to the lowest state that is *unoccupied* by another fermion, and you get a stack of energy levels. Bosons however could all simply go on the lowest energy level. The existence of a nonzero temperature, however, provides vibrational energy that allows particles to occupy higher states, even if the states below them are unoccupied. So the entire distribution shifts towards higher energies. A Bose-Einstein condensate is, as described in the previous paragraph, when a system of bosons is at almost zero temperature, and thus nearly all particles are allowed to occupy the same lowest energy level at the same time. It's as if the all 14 students in the class were in the first row, even though the first row only has 5 seats. Or, if considering a per-seat level, having all 14 students in the rightmost seat of the first row.
These names represent different business entities. A business entity is an organization founded for doing business that can enter into contracts and sue or be sued. Let’s say, for example, you start plowing driveways for work. If you don't create a business entity, then you're just considered to be working as yourself. If you hit someone’s car with your plow, you will be responsible. That person can sue you and you’ll have to pay out of your own pocket. Now let’s say that you instead decided to create a limited liability company (a type of business entity) called Plowguy LLC. You would file forms with your state, pay a small fee, and now a thing called Plowguy LLC exists. People now hire Plowguy LLC to plow their driveways and you work for Plowguy LLC. If you hit someone’s car, they sue Plowguy LLC instead of you. And since you’re the owner of Plowguy LLC, you can take money out of the company when there’s a profit. Business entities are helpful because they create continuity with businesses and limit your liability. By continuity, I mean that you can have a single organization that persists through different employees, owners, and management. For example, Ford Motor Company has been around for 113 years and gone through several different CEOs. Business entities also limit your personal liability. Remember the suing example above? If you don’t have a business entity and you get sued personally, you’re entirely responsible for any debt. If you cause $100,000 worth of damage in your car wreck, you will have to pay all of that even if it comes from your personal funds. If you have a business entity, only the business entity is responsible for the debt. If you cause $100,000 worth of damage and your business is only worth $30,000, you can declare bankruptcy, sell the business to pay off what you can, and then forget about the rest. You don’t have to pay the remaining $70,000 from your personal assets. Having gone through all of that, here are the different types of entities in the US: Inc./Corp. – This means a corporation. Corporations are a type of business entity ownership is determined by stock certificates and owners vote on a board of directors, who then hire managers. Most corporations are *not* publicly traded and it’s possible that just one or two people could be the stockholders, board members, and executive officers for a small corporation. The owners have no liability for the debts of the corporation. Ltd./LP – Limited partnership. This is a business entity where multiple partners invest, but only some of them run the business. The investors who don’t run the business are called limited partners. They do not have any liability for the debts of the business. The investors who run the business are called general partners. They do have liability for debts of the business. For this reason, many people make a corporation to act as the general partner. LLC – Limited Liability Company. This is sort of like a mix between a corporation and LP. The owners don’t have liability for the debts of the business and they can choose to involve themselves in running the business if they want. Those are the main types of business organizations. You’ll sometimes hear about partnerships too, but that’s just two people working together. It doesn’t limit their liability and usually doesn’t require any formal paperwork. There are also things like professional limited liability companies (PLLCs) which are special forms of LLCs for doctors, lawyers, etc. but those are just special cases. There are also tax considerations when choosing a business entity. Corporations, LPs, and LLCs all may get taxed slightly differently, but that's a very detailed, dry topic (even more so than the above). Edit: I should mention assumed names. If you want to do business under a name, but don't want to create a business entity, you can get an "assumed name." This is just a record that's easy to file with your county that says "John Doe is now doing business under the name Plowguy." They are also called DBAs for "doing business as" as in "John Doe d/b/a Plowguy." These don't limit your liability or change your taxes in any way at all - they just allow you to call yourself Plowguy for business instead of John Doe. It really depends on what jurisdiction the organization falls under, but basically the business structure you choose will have different legal and tax implications. You can visit the [US Small Business Association]( URL_0 ) page for a very brief overview if you live in the US.
Some people know who he is, it's just not publicly released. Valve employees know his real identity as does his family and close friends, but at Icefrog's request, they don't reveal who he is. Like how White House officials know who the secret service agents are, and their families probably know somewhat, but for obvious reasons, this isn't revealed to the public at large.
They are not... They are needed for a $7/refill head shave. Try an old fashioned single blade: URL_0 So like everyone else is saying, if you haven't yet try using safety blades. "The Art of Shaving" is a decent in-person store for you to go to talk to someone. Most of their associates will actually tell you how to get refills online once you have a decent starter kit. However they can be useful in some cases. They are decent for a 'casual' shaver. Some people have to go over the same spot several times, having 5 blades let's you do it once and be done. Add to that they are usually harder to cut yourself with and the fact that every store has them makes them popular. They aren't, it's all marketing. I was using the $7/head Gillette blades and getting razor burn. When I switched to a safety razor (single blade head) I started getting a closer shave and no razor burn. The single blades cost like 50 cents and are more accurate and comfortable and I'm never going back.
You get the transcript and search them (or better yet, the captions for a video, since it's already time tagged). There are commercial services that have the transcripts for practically everything and there is software that can DVR shows and stuff with closed captions which can be searched. There are ways to search the captions of youtube videos as well.
All sales taxes added at the register in the USA are local & state taxes. There is no national sales tax (though the Obama administration seems to want to impose one). The taxes are different from place to place, and can even be different in various parts of the same city/county. The taxes can also change slightly through the year as new taxes are added and as taxes expire. An example would be adding a tiny amount to the existing sales tax for a set period of time to finance a road project. Merchandise is usually distributed to stores from regional centers with the prices already determined and tags attached. The stores avoid having to re-pricetag all the items by charging the tax at the cash register.
[The wiki article may be a good general place to start]( URL_0 ). In music, any chord of two notes (or more, but we'll just stick with two here) can be described as augmented, major, minor, or diminished in terms of the sound produced. However, there are two special chords (the fifth and the fourth) which are neither major or minor, and so are called "perfect;" if you take any piece of music, and pull out a single 4th (5 half steps) or 5th (7 half steps) chord from that song, and *just play that chord*, you would be completely unable to tell whether the parent song is major or minor (assuming the whole song is in the same key). In addition, certain numerical combinations of notes (so, chords with a given number of half/whole steps between them) always have certain sound qualities, regardless of the actual notes being played. For example, a C - Gb and a C# - G chord are both diminished 5ths, and will evoke the same general response in the listener, despite the fact that they're two different sets of notes. The point of the circle of 5ths is that you can easily see the interrelationships between given notes for any given key. You can also reverse the circle to get the circle of 4ths, which is generally more useful for jazz. However, unless you're more into progressive or experimental metal you probably won't need that version of it, and can just rely on the circle of 5ths (which is the mainstay used for classical music, which is going to be a little more relevant to metal in general). Also, if you're interested in the theory of it I'd actually start by getting a keyboard and learning a bit of piano, as music theory is fundamentally easiest to understand on a piano, and because piano theory translates very well to understanding basically any kind of music. Edit; on half/whole steps, see [this]( URL_1 ). So, any type of key for a given song is going to follow the same general rules, regardless of where you start. For example, for a C-major scale (which has no sharps or flats), you would play C-D-E-F-G-A-B-C, in that order. However, if you started in G-major, it would be G-A-B-C-D-F-F#-G, and you'd have to get into the black keys. However, both of these scales follow the same progression of 7 steps from the root (C for C-major);root-whole-whole-half-whole-whole-whole-half. For a whole step, you skip the neighboring key (black or white) and head to the next key (again, black or white). Similarly, for a half-step, you just hit the neighboring key. Using combinations of whole and half steps, you can figure out the notes of any given key for a piece. *Every* major scale will have the root-whole-whole-half-whole-whole-whole-half progression. Similarly, every *minor* scale will have a set progression, of which the simplest version ("natural" minor) is root-whole-half-whole-whole-half-whole-whole. Another form of minor ("harmonic" minor, which produces a sound that some people think of as sounding middle-eastern or Egyptian, and which shows up in metal at times) is root-whole-half-whole-whole-half-1.5-half, where 1.5 is a step and a half (so, skip 2 notes on the keyboard).
My guess is that happy is capitalized because it's the beginning of a sentence, and New Year is a proper noun (shorthand for New Year's Day). New Year's Day is the name of a holiday. Because of this it is capitalized like every other proper noun. I just had an "aha" moment reading some of these comments. Americans (or at least some of them) consider "Happy New Year" to be short for "Happy New Year's Day". Presumably this is why some say "Happy New Year's" (heard as "Happy New Years" to these British ears, which is mildly irritating). In the U.K. "Happy New Year" just means "Happy New Year". You are welcoming in the year, not the single day. At least, that's the way I've always thought of it. So good question by OP. My guess is we capitalise it just because it looks better. I wonder what the style manuals of the economist, the FT, the New York Times etc say. I'm going to guess the economist does not capitalise it, but could be wrong. Anyway, happy new year.
Well, first we need to define what a "high-risk" investment is. Usually this will mean one of two items: 1. A young company that has created something uniquely valuable 2. A company in financial distress Let's start with number 1: a young company. This is the type of company you'll usually see in Shark Tank/Dragon's Den. Essentially someone thought up a product or idea, and started a business around it. **SOME** sources of risk here are as follows (by no means is this exhaustive): 1. Management. Usually someone at this stage of business is a first-time entrepreneur (or maybe it isn't their first time, but the other attempts did not realize success). They are going to make mistakes, mistakes cost money. 2. The Underlying Product or Service. So the entrepreneur has an idea. Okay. How *big* is the idea *really*? Is this just a gag gift? Is it the next major trend? How big is the market for this idea, and how much would they be willing to pay for it? 3. The Company's Short History. It's very hard to tell if you're improving or not if you've only got a year or two of financial records (which, in many cases, could be incorrect!). 4. Management's Expectations. Usually founders of small businesses are **very** optimistic about what they're going to do and how successful it will be. Everything they say needs to be taken with a grain of salt. 5. **TIME** This one is a big one. An investment in a small start up isn't like putting money in the bank or even investing in the stock market. **You will not be able to access that money for at least a few years, and usually more.** That can be very problematic. 6. Profitability. In order to succeed, your company must generate more cash than it spends. Many start ups **do not generate more cash than spent for several years.** They usually need a lot of capital from investors like you just to survive until they're big enough to gain a profit. If the company isn't structured very well, it could be a long time before profit is recognized. (Also some industries, like a whisky distillery, by the nature of their business take a long time to have a product ready to sell). Why invest amidst all these risks? **Because you're able to get a large portion of the ownership of the company for *relatively* cheap so that if it DOES take off, you can make a TON of money.** Now let's look at Distressed Companies. A distressed company is one that has been operating for a bit, but suddenly now finds itself near or in bankruptcy. Why on Earth would someone want to invest in that? Well, sometimes the company's underlying, normal performance is perfectly fine, but they took on too much debt, or some very unusual thing happened that caused them to get in the mess they're now in. Other times, the way they do business isn't the best, and so they're missing out on great growth opportunities. So, you can either loan them cash or invest in them so they survive, get back on their feet, and then realize a good return (both the company overall and you personally). It all comes down to something called your *risk appetite.* That is, how willing are you to lose for the chance to win? Obviously if you'd lose $100 maximum and gain $1,000,000 maximum, you'd be more likely to take that bet. If the reverse were the case (bettering $1,000,000 for the chance to win $100), you'd avoid that. It comes down to where you draw the line, how negotiations play out, and how the overall deal ends up going before and after. Step one is to have a lot of money so you can lose it when you're wrong and not be on the street. Step two is to be an 'expert' in the field the company is in. That doesn't mean you have to actually understand pharmacology to invest in pharmacies but you have to understand the market landscape which would include knowing something about drugs and how regulations work etc. High-risk means high reward, so you only have to be correct once to make it big, however it also means you'll lose more often than you'll win.
The simple answer is stress causes this. By setting a schedule your body will fall into a rhythm. After a while you don't really need the alarm at all. However as we know our natural rythems get disturbed occasionally. When we must get up we are creating stress that is easiest to avoid by doing nothing and that is what we want to do (avoid stress). On the weekend you don't have stress to avoid and your body is doing its thing. A sign of depression (just one of the signs) is oversleeping. Your mind allowing your body to avoid the stress of life every chance you get. Feel good that you feel awake when you don't have to. Your life is manageable to you. I know the true answer. we are in the computer. you are people born and living in the computer. just some program, like a demon, bother you. I was actually wondering the same thing not too long ago when I was on holiday. We have just been on a cruise with endless activities and I found myself waking up at around 5am every morning. I wasn't actually able to do anything but watch tv until 8am but I think it is just the fact of waking up to something you really enjoy. After coming back, I have had a boat load of university assignments to finish, and I find myself waking up 9-10am. I usually get up at around 8am, but knowing that I am going to be sitting by a computer all day doing work, I find my bed just all that more comfortable.
As far as dolls and clowns go, the scary feeling might be due to the "uncanny valley". This refers to the observation that the more an inanimate object has human characteristics (in appearance and movement), the more an observer feels an affinity for it. For example, a stuffed animal elicits feelings of warmth and cuteness. A robot that looks more human inspires people to think of it as more human and feel more comfortable with it, even to like it more. But: there's a limit. At some point, when the thing starts to look very close to human, but slightly off, the feelings of affinity turn to feelings of revulsion, disgust, and fear. This is likely because it starts to look like it's *wrong*, that it's a diseased or menacing person. Things that this applies to are said to fall into the uncanny valley. "Valley" comes from imagining these ideas as a chart. On the X axis, the further right means the more human-looking. On the Y axis, the higher numbers mean greater affinity and feelings of warmth. The line thus charted rises as it goes to the right, until it abruptly falls down to its lowest point. Then it soon rises to its highest point as you get to the maximum of looking human and the maximum of feelings of affinity --for those who actually *are* human. Thus there's visually a valley in the data points. You can google "uncanny valley" and it will probably be easier to see this chart than for me to have explained this. So, clowns look human, but slightly wrong. Same with dolls--feelings of cuteness arise and are then snuffed out as you realize you're not looking at an actual baby, and the dead doll eyes evoke corpse more than cuteness. Zombies do this too -- it's one reason why the shuffling zombie gait is disturbing. At a distance it seems like a person, but as it approaches, you realize there's something wrong, and tense up to judge what it could be, only to realize that it's a dead thing. Another hypothesis as to why clowns may be scary is that, with a face covered in makeup, including a huge fake grin, you can't accurately assess what emotions the person dressed as the clown are actually feeling. You can't see if there's a danger to you that is being obscured by a mask.
Also you should talk to your companies HR about taking a leave for medical reasons. They can't fire you. They might even help you.
It is not known if animal hormones effect humans or not. These things are difficult to test. Currently the FDA says they are safe, so many companies use them. Some consumers are afraid of chemicals and sensationalist articles can make anyone afraid of anything, and it has created the idea that consumers should "worry" about additives, and this makes it profitable to market hormone-free products even without any proof the hormones are negative. I can't honestly say if the growth hormones are safe or not; I can say the FDA says they are, but the FDA has been wrong before. The issue is far from final, and more research needs to be done.
It's an interesting question because we want to know and understand as much as possible about our universe. But to your last point, you may well be right that we will never be able to really look beyond that origin point, and even if we could we might not make sense of it.
Alright, going down the list of the ones that you have probably seen, there are a few more. The most common type you see is USB type A. The thin rectangular one most likely in the side of your computer. This was the original design of USB, however it should be noted that USB was designed with what is known as a master-slave relationship between connected devices, or at least that was what developed. This is where USB type B comes in. The side where USB A is connected is the master device, it is the one that does all the controlling, it does all the commands and charging. It controls the other device. USB type B, the bigger more square one which isn't that common today (more on this later), is the slave device, the device the master controls. This is why USB type A inserts is pretty much exclusively on computers, or at least this was the standard. The main reason this exists is to prevent short circuiting, but since it is the USB type A port generally sending the signals, it became dubbed the master. Now, USB type B was somewhat replaced by USB mini, which is the smaller connector that is jagged on the sides, it was smaller, phones were becoming popular and smaller, a smaller connector was necessary for USB type B connection. It however was somewhat flawed, it apparently was structurally poor, wore down the port too much, so it was redesigned again, to make USB Micro, the common connection on Android phones today, but slowly getting replaced once more by the next port. USB type C is the replacement for pretty much everything on this list. It gets rid of the issues that a same port Master Slave system has, such as short circuiting, is reversible, most likely a trait borrowed from Apple's lightning connector. It is the best USB connector at the moment. But we are not done yet. USB versions, this one is fun. So, versions of USB 1 were practically not used, so we skip that to USB version 2.0. Classic USB port, sadly still very widely used even if newer versions are available. Has 4 pins inside of it, 2 for power delivery (+5 Volts and ground), and 2 connections for data transfer. USB type B has the same pins, while USB mini adds a 5th pin for mode detection, which detects the type of connection on the other side, this one can actually have the other cable be connected to USB B, and this last 5th pin is added as a detector for it, if it is USB type A, it is hotwired to the ground wire, if not, then it isn't connected at all. Now, it is 2008, the 480 Mbps of USB 2.0 is starting to get slow, so our boys at Intel and many other companies get together and make a new version of USB, version 3.0. This changes the type A connector by adding another 5 pins to increase the data rate to a whooping 5 Gbps. Compatibility with USB 2.0 ports is kept by adding these last 5 pins in the back, where they will only be connected if both the port and the cable are USB 3.0, if not, those contacts will never touch, and it reverts to USB 2.0 mode. It is also denoted by having the plastic in the port or connector be a blue color. So, type A was updated, and guess what that means? More wall of text because now we have to update type B ports, including the mini one. Type B maintains its overall shape but gets a weird "roof" to house the last 5 connections for it. [Here is a nice image]( URL_1 ). But this will largely be ignored because type B is being replaced by microUSB, which was also updated... except microUSB 3.0 is also largely ignored because its primary use, phones, did not need the speed until now, and the connector needed an extension to house the extra 5 pins. [So now it looks weird as fuck, because the ports have to maintain compatibility with classic microUSB 2.0, which can be plugged into half of the port, [as shown here]( URL_2 ). Mini USB was abandoned, as it was replaced by MicroUSB. But we are not done yet. Small revisions to USB 3.0 without changing the pinout allowed for USB 3.1 to transfer 10 Gbps, so a small update was made for that. Then, for some weird as fuck reason, they decided to rename normal USB 3.0 as USB 3.1 Gen 1, and the 10 Gbps ports as Gen 2. And now at this point, once again, our boys at Intel, Apple, and several other tech companies gathered around, sat down, took a look at [this clusterfuck]( URL_0 ), took a deep breath, and said things must change. So, they got their asses working on yet another port. In 2014, these engineers released USB type C. Once again, reversible, USB 3.1 bandwidth, and can even support a little something called Thunderbolt 3, which has a whooping 40 Gbps data transfer rate. It does away with the master slave concept, meaning that it also replaces all connectors, type A, which was replaced since there is little purpose in such a large connector, type B, because it is unneeded without the master slave concept, microUSB since type C is also tiny. There is also mini USB type A, and several other connectors, but I think you get the point. /walloftext
Computer Engineering is about the hardware and making of a computer. answer the question: how does it work? and how do i make a new functioning one? how do i make a better one? IT is about using existing devices in an environment. answer the question: how do i deploy these devices in an office so that 100 people can access it and how do I maintain and service the devices using my IT staff during its serviceable lifetime? Computer Science is about the software and using the computer to solve problems (sometimes not real world problems) answer the question: if I had to walk 500 miles using a computer program, what kinds of algorithm would i need to 1) do it 2) do it efficiently 3) prove that its most efficient way possible
Firearms. We can keep making them to tighter tolerances by shaving off thousandths of inches here and there, but the fact is the designs are pretty much perfected. You can't do much to alter the basic physics involved in feeding bullets into a gun. Even experts agree that unless a radically new kind of technology shows up (like directed energy weapons) the basic design of a gun isn't going to change much. There have been some innovations like the Kriss Vector, but results have been mixed and the jury is still out on it. Since almost anything could be made out of improved materials, it is hard to prove that anything has actually peaked. Even extremely boring things, like pencils or belts or socks or tables, clearly can be improved if someone invents a superior material to make them out of. Another question is, what can be improved upon, but other things take priority and therefore isn't researched? Look at basic hand tools, hammers and screwdrivers, or garden tools for example. You might see someone add a better grip or some simple twist, but a hammer is a hammer. Can that simple thing be improved upon? Do we bother to try? Or is the simple design all we need?
Outside of heating therapies (same as a heating pad), it sounds very bunk, and the vast majority of the studies in that review are shit. To the point where I'm surprised they passed peer review.
The thing about brains is that there's always a lot of stuff happening all over, such that it's hard to tell what's going on at any given point. Getting useful data from them usually requires a lot of averaging; the colorful brain scans you often see really only represent slightly increased or decreased activation. In general, this noisiness is really important. Predictable, synchronized firing of neurons is what we see in epileptic seizures, which are bad. While brains may give the appearance of rhythm and order, their actual workings look like pure chaos. Anyway, the only way to tell what a single neuron is doing is by inserting a tiny electrode. It's an invasive procedure, and you can't tell which cell you're going to get, so it's kinda limited.
Because people don't know what to do with their hands. They choose to "strike a pose" instead of perhaps appearing awkward. EDIT: The peace sign is just an example. People the world over use a variety of different signs but for the same purpose.
I don't know why Microsoft does it, but when Google switched they specifically stated their reasoning. They want to make it possible in the future to support alternatives to passwords. For example, you put in your email and Google asks you to either scan your thumbprint or enter your password. [Here's a good link explaining it]( URL_0 ). * 1- It's so you have more options in how you log in. If you have your Google account setup to use a phone authentication rather than a password, you shouldn't be prompted for the password in the first place. * 2- Security. While all major sites use HTTPS, encryption, and many more security tools, if the connection gets compromised having two separate pages might make it harder for someone to match up the data between the two. * 3- It limits traffic for the site's databases. If a user enters an invalid email, the server would just reject it, instead of doing the complex password hashing stuff. Its not going to decrease overall traffic because there are multiple pages being sent, but the strain on databases and computation will slightly decrease. Some domains have their own internal authentication systems (this is called federation). So for example if you try to login into a MS service with email somebody (at) URL_0 , you'll get redirected to an internal login website instead. (Not All services support it though) Same will happen for other organisation domains on Gmail. (Many universities use that) This way organisations can manage and their own accounts without involving the MS processes every time. This helps when the accounts for new hires are automated. It makes the login flow less surprising this way. Some services will still display both fields (user and password) on one site, but if you click the password field, your email will be checked in the background and you may get redirected halfway through typing your password anyway.
Pure, distilled water when frozen melts at 32 degrees F/0 degrees C. By introducing impurities, such as salt, into the ice the bonds between the ice molecules become weaker, lowering the temperature that it will melt at. A lower melting point means that the ice will melt sooner. Standard road salt allows ice to melt down to about 20 F/-7 C, while specialized mixtures work at much lower temperatures.
Melons are the cheapest fruits for the same amount of volume. Filling the side of a plate with berries would cost the restaurant around a dollar. Filling it with melon costs them about 10 cents. Fresh pineapple is somewhere in-between.
USPS is an "independent establishment of the executive branch." It functions more like a corporation whose assets are public and whose services and pricing decisions are controlled by the federal government than a traditional government agency. It still is considered a federal agency, though many statutes about agencies specifically exempt or make special provisions for USPS. Unlike most agencies, USPS does not receive appropriations from Congress, instead relying only on revenues from its services. USPS debt is sovereign, but the USPS still owes it. USPS also has a board of governors appointed by the president. The board chooses the Postmaster General, who sees to day-to-day operations and is the head of the agency. The PMG is independent of the president, which is different from many other agencies. USPS is governed by many statutes that don't normally apply to federal agencies, like OSHA, the NLRA, and SOX. USPS's employees are also more limited in their civil service protections, with many not qualifying for those protections at all. There's a lot more information on USPS at URL_0 .
Out-of-season produce is typically from areas with a different climate from the normal growing areas, or, if nothing else, greenhouses which can emulate a particular season. Well. First of all its always in season somewhere, and many of the fruits and veggies usualy found in common supermarkets can come from half way around the world, depending on temperature, humidity and the gases the fruit is exposed too you can actually massivly slow down the ripening process of a fruit or vegtable, The first example of this is when the apple harvest would end they would seal them up in wooden barrels and drop them in to lakes, the cooler atmosphere, the lack of oxigen and CO2 exposure, and if the barrel didnt leak the dry air would keep the apples fresh for quite a while. and considering modern transport you can probobly transport a load of any fruit from one side of the earth to another in hours if the profit margin is high enough. Now the harder bit, We now have the means to recreate in greenhouses the envirenment for around 90% of the fruit we consume, we can control the air, humidity, temperature and basicaly grow most fruits in and out of season anywhere as long as we can set up a sealed enviremnet where we control those factors, the thing is that it raises the cost of the fruit (this is why in season fruit is cheaper), The next generation of this is basicaly industrial fruit and vegtable farms where the produce is actually grown in stacked hydroponic shelfs like its being worked on in japan right now. URL_0 The thing is that if we manage to modify fruits and vegtables to be grown in hydroponic vertical farms we can drastricly reduce the ammount of soil, water and most importably pestecides used to grow our food supply, personaly i think its the next major advancement in agrucultural science. You can ship them from locations with different seasons, or you can recreate the season within greenhouses. As humans we have the ability to recreate much of the features of seasons within protected areas. Depends, but most of the time it's grown in a specific area that has a suitable climate even when it might be out of season. In Ventura California we grow strawberries and raspberries year round because our winter temp rarely drops below 55 so while it may be out of season for the rest of the country it's still a suitable climate to grow. There is also a difference in day neutral plants and long day plants. Plants that flower no matter the day length and plants that will only flower during long days (summer/spring). Both of these factors allow us to grow year round
If a person commits a crime, it doesn't matter what the victim says. It is the moral duty of law enforcement to arrest the person, and the judicial system to bring that person to justice. It's not only about attempting to provide the victim with justice, it's about punishing the perpetrator for violating societies laws. Take a child, abused by a parent for example. The child may not want to press charges for any number of reasons but, it's the moral duty of society to prosecute the perpetrator. If a crime is committed against someone then that person can bring a civil case for compensation for the damages they sustained. But the State Prosecutor brings criminal charges and it only tangentially involves the victim of the crime. Committing a crime is an offense against the state and the state will hold the perpetrator accountable. The victim cannot "drop charges" because they didn't bring them. In the UK the real victim of a crime is the state. What we consider to be victims are really just witnesses to the crime against the state. It depends on what crime it is. Some charges are levied by the state, not the victim. The biggest one of these is domestic related cases. Sure the victim might flip back to his/her abuser, but the state never knows if it's because they are coerced
They are most likely using [Wake on LAN]( URL_0 ). > Wake-on-LAN ("WOL") is implemented using a specially designed packet called a magic packet, which is sent to all computers in a network, among them the computer to be woken up. The magic packet contains the MAC address of the destination computer, an identifying number built into each network interface card ("NIC") or other ethernet device in a computer, that enables it to be uniquely recognized and addressed on a network. Powered-down or turned off computers capable of Wake-on-LAN will contain network devices able to "listen" to incoming packets in low-power mode while the system is powered down. If a magic packet is received that is directed to the device's MAC address, the NIC signals the computer's power supply or motherboard to initiate system wake-up, much in the same way as pressing the power button would do. ELI5 version: > A computer that is off can have its network card run in lower power listening mode for a message that is used to trigger the computer's wake up procedure. Kinda like a TV on standby waiting for the power button on the remote to be pressed. Yep Wake-on-LAN (WoL) is an Ethernet or token ringcomputer networking standard that allows a computer to be turned on or woken up by a network message. The message is usually sent to the target computer by a program executed on a device connected to the same local area network, such as a smartphone. It is also possible to initiate the message from another network by using subnet directed broadcasts or a WOL gateway service. Equivalent terms include wake on WAN, remote wake-up, power on by LAN, power up by LAN, resume by LAN, resume on LAN and wake up on LAN. If the computer being awakened is communicating via Wi-Fi, a supplementary standard called Wake on Wireless LAN (WoWLAN) must be employed.[1]
Its Soemtimes easy to forget how much of a skill drawing really I is. This is similar to asking, why can't we all make shots in a basketball hoop because we can picture it in our heads. Muscle memory and building skill If someone gave you a pencil and asked you to sketch their face, you could probably get the outline, and some of the facial features somewhat okay, but doing shading or using darker/lighter and broader/skinnier lines, or using blank space to simulate highlights (exposure not dye) is more advanced and not something a regular person would even think to do in the moment. So if you are decent, you may be able to [do this]( URL_1 ), but only people that take art seriously could do something [like this]( URL_0 ). And that's having a physical version of what you want to draw in front of you, your mental imagery loses a lot of detail.
That's very much an American thing. Want to see Americans freak out? Go to a European vehicle rental counter. The shifter on my 2015 Grand Cherokee, "looks" normal, but is really just a huge toggle switch, when you "flip it", the PRNDL indicator on the dash moves in the selected direction. There's a slight delay and I hate it because if I'm not paying attention, it doesn't always move to the desired position fast enough. It's the same shifter that killed Anton Yelchin when he got out of his jeep and it rolled and crushed him. Im pretty sure you arent talking about it moving away from a manual transmissions which is what most people are assuming from what ive read, the answer is aesthetics. Also they are moving away from manual gearboxes. You'll notice that cars that offer manual gear boxes have more traditional shift nobs. This is because they have to have that to accommodate manuals, which again are being phased out in many markets. If a car doesnt have a manual option then they can do what ever they want with the shift "nob" because they have far more freedom because it doesnt have to be mechanically linked.
Uber is growing under the same strategy and mentality as Amazon - grow as fast as possible, gain as much market share as possible and do so at any expense. In a new market like ride sharing, the biggest and most popular will win in the long run. Profitability may be quarters, if not years, away but the prospect of going public is going to provide investors with real cash value in the form of shares.
It prevents your blood from clotting properly! Hence, if you want to walk out of the surgery without blood gushing from your wounds you shouldn't take an aspirin right before it :) EDIT: words Because aspirin is the only NSAID with blood thinning properties: that's why it's used in prevention of CV events at low dosage ( < 100mg). They also usually don't want you to take ibuprofen (Motrin/Advil) before surgery, either. And make sure of the number of days before surgery that you can't take them.
Because the simple characters have special meaning in certain contexts. In a web page, for example, you use < > to tell the browser about the structure of the page. If I wanted to make a paragraph with red text, I would write < p style="color:red" > This text would be red < /p > If I want a literal < or > , I need a way to tell the computer that "this is a literal < , not the start of an instruction", and it needs to be a sequence that won't be used anywhere else. The way web pages take care of this is to use an & followed by a description of the character to mean the literal character. So if I want a literal `'`, I can use ` & apos;` or ` & #39;` (an apostrophe is character number 39). If I want a literal ampersand, I can use ` & amp;` or ` & #38;`. Certain characters like punctuation have those codes like & #39 to differentiate between a displayed punctuation in text and something that's part of code to execute. All these are great answers. To add on, these are known as 'escape sequences'; every language (markup or programming) that deals with strings has them, and they generally differ from language to language.
Men occasionally do it while shaving too. Moving the jaw out helps pull the skin on the cheeks and under the eyes tighter.
The same reason you get viagra and penis pill spam in your email. Some people are unbelievably stupid and willing to spend money to prove it. > It seems like this type of advertising would do more harm to their brand than help I suspect most of us associate annoyance with the *ad* itself, but not the *brand* behind the ad (E.g., I know I don't hate Coke because of their annoying ads). It also doesn't matter much if ads are annoying. Half the job is making people remember. What annoying ads do? Make people remember. If we forgot them in 30 seconds they probably would be annoying in the first place. There's also a few interesting studies I've heard of about us being more receptive to the '*skip this ad in 5 sec*' type, because for that five second period we are paying attention to try and skip it asap, whereas on telly we zone out almost immediately. > Do they actually generate substantial traffic and revenue for the advertiser? They don't even need to generate revenue directly or immediately. Many marketing things are long term and look like they are losing money on paper. Primarily, they just need to make sure you are aware of that brand. Do you know how often I see ads to [Grammarly]( URL_0 )? Sure, I find the ads annoying. However, I now *know* about the product and if I wanted a service like that it's the first one that comes to mind. Because of those ads, before I even used the service or product, I have a 'stereotype' of that product. People often use these stereotypes when making purchases. In this case, I'd be making a comparison between a complete unknown and something I've seen on an ad. For many, that's enough to change their decision and behaviour.
I can't explain it in detail but its because they reproduce in times when reproductive success is higher, ie during times of high seasonal food supply or better weather. Humans don't have these selective pressures so we don't have breeding seasons.
If you are alone, what are your odds of being eaten when a predator comes along? 100% If you are in a school of 100 fish, what are the odds of being eaten when a predator comes along? 1% Schooling provides two benefits: First, it reduces the odds of any one individual being eaten. Two, many predators don't have that great of vision. So, instead of looking like a big group of small individuals, the school may look like one big individual, discouraging the predator from attacking. It is hard for the predator to focus on just one fish when there are so many about. So the predator goes to attack the school, but there are so many fish going in different directions that they get confused and can't follow a single fish.
If they have nothing whatsoever to eat, then the fat guy might live a little longer, but not that much longer, because vitamin deficiency will kill him long before his fat reserves are expended. If they get vitamin supplements to prevent that, then the fat guy would live much, much longer than the skinny guy. This is the *exact reason* the human body developed the ability to store fat. Yes, it is a food reserve for the lean times when available calories are limited. It would help a lot in a "no food" situation, though as others have pointed out, you could still die reasonably soon for lack of key minerals and other nutrients besides just calories. It would help *even more* in a "limited food" situation, where you had enough of the micronutrients but simply needed a lot more calories to keep your energy up and fuel your activities (and your brain, heart, etc.). The fat will get digested for energy. However, the fatter person could have issues from malnutrition. The thin person would have the same malnutrition issues, so the fatter person should survive longer, all other things being equal. > Obviously the fat guy's organs might have suffered from his sedentary lifestyle and whatnot. Let's ignore such things for argument's sake. I just wanted to drop in and speak to this comment in the OP. Generally speaking, in human history institutional starvation and institutional instability go hand in hand. if people are starving (even in a context vacuum), it is also a dangerous time to be alive. Populations don't starve and then stay content and well-behaved. One may need to react extremely quickly in fight-or-flight scenario - in most instances the fit guy is going to have an advantage over the unfit guy. Fat reserves are great for survival in low-food and no-food scenarios, but being unfit is almost always to your detriment more so than carrying a few extra calories could offset. Body fat is a mechanism to store energy for lean times, and through our history, periods of starvation/minimal nutrition were common, particularly during the winter. Yes, fat allows you to live longer during starvation. Quite a bit longer. On a typical human, every lb of fat is 2 days of not eating. If the 150 LB guy is a lean 15% BF, we're talking about 22 lbs of fat. He has about 30 days of survival until he's down to essential fat, and bad things start happening health wise. Let's say the 300 lb guy is sitting at 40% BF, and has 120 lbs of fat. That's over 200 days of food that's stored up. There's some comments about vitamin deficiencies, but most people don't die from having a vitamin deficiency for 6 months. If you're getting sunlight, you're getting Vitamin D. The skinny guy in this scenario starts having health issues after a month. The overweight guy starts having health issues 4-6 times longer than that. *Edit* I'm not trying to say that starvation/fasting are perfectly healthy & carry no risks. I'm just saying that if you took 1,000 people and starved them for 6 months, the skinny people would be all dead, and those that are obese would have many still surviving.
This subject is controversial, as scientists who study the biology of phonetics do not use the terms "chest voice" or "head voice". There are four ways that your vocal cords can move to produce sound. These are called the four [vocal registers]( URL_1 ). **Vocal fry** is the lowest register. The vocal cords are pressed lightly together, and air bubbles through between them. This creates a sound that is described as "gravelly", "popping", "creaky", or "rattling". **Modal voice** is your normal voice ("modal" is a fancy word for "normal"). The whole flesh of the vocal cord vibrates (as seen in [this gif]( URL_2 )), allowing the greatest amount of control over things like volume and tone. **Falsetto** is when most of the vocal cords are relaxed; only the tips vibrate together (as seen in [this gif]( URL_0 )). Since there's less mass that has to vibrate back and forth, you can do it faster, and thus get higher pitch than in modal voice. But there's less control over volume and tone, so falsetto is often characterized as "thin" or "breathy". **Whistle** is the highest register. We actually don't know much about what goes on with the vocal cords here, because the throat closes up and doesn't let us look at them. Most men and some women cannot even use this register without training. The voice produced has a distinctive "whistle-like" or "flute-like" tone that is very different from the same person's voice in lower registers.
Sexual arousal is a very base part of the human body, one we share with most animals. When we are aroused, arousal starts to interfere with higher brain functions as, being a base trait, it is strong and simple. Orgasm is even more interesting, with males' brains switching off mainly in points such as the amygdala, responsible for instincts like fear, and female brains switching off almost entirely. /u/CaptainGloom makes a good point. Further, the fundamental point of sexual arousal isn't to choose a good partner, but to spread your genes to the next generation. Nature doesn't care about who it's done with, just that it happens. I think that if we thought about it too much, it would never happen. I think that higher functions are inhibited so that gene transmission is more likely. It really is alarming how much our more primitive functions control our behavior. The concept of arousal also occurs in different contexts like anger and excitement. Those mental states can lead one to make choices they wouldn't make otherwise.
Rural farmer types tend to vote right, working class union members tend to vote left, Jews in Miami tend to vote left, poor black inner city folks tend to vote overwhelmingly left. Your statement doesn't really apply because education and income are too broad of factors to generalize how they will vote. Got to get more specific if you want to draw stereotypes.
Some metals produce volatile compounds when binding with oils from the human body, such as when they are handled. These can produce a taste or smell (the familiar taste of pennies for instance) even if the metal itself does not have much of either on its own. If I'm not mistaken, the smell of most metals is caused by things on its surface reacting with it. For instance, oils on skin + copper gives the "penny smell" (and taste, too!).
This is very complicated and not all economists even agree on the basic facts. Moreover it's very difficult to seperate the effect of NAFTA from the effect of other macro-economic things happening at the same time, like automation. That said, economists agree on a few general principles: 1. Lower tariffs in general is better in the long-term on average. Part of this is producing labor intensive products in places where labor is cheap, but the other part is producing education-intensive or engineering-intensive products in places with good education systems. 2. The winners and losers are specific to the particular negotiations and the particulars of the existing tariffs. There are no "good deals for America"--winners and losers in trade deals are industry specific. Even figuring out the balance of the winners and losers in a giant deal like NAFTA is difficult. However, in a populist politics and to some extent in the press, almost all trade negotiations are considered bad deals by everyone involved. NAFTA for example is often blamed for job problems in Mexico, Canada, and the US. Why? This is because the job losses tend to be concentrated and the job gains are diffuse across the whole economy. In other words, the losers see the next factory built in Mexico and the local one closed. This is an easy story for the press to cover. In contrast, the identity of the winners is not as clear. For example if Boeing sells a few more planes at lower tariffs to Mexican airlines, the jobs that those sales create are hard to tie to NAFTA in the press and the popular imagination. It's just that Boeing's profits are higher and they employ more people, but that "win" is mixed in with whatever else is going on in Boeing's balance sheet and employment situation for that particular year. This is not an easy story for the press to cover. This diffuse gains and concentrated losses situations often leads to inaction. So why do free trade deals happen at all? In this case the potential winners are companies (e.g. Boeing) and companies do a lot of quiet lobbying and they are often organized into industry lobby groups who quietly pressure congress. So what happens is that many congresspeople will be publicly opposed to trade deals (because of the optics of closing factories) but be privately in favor (because of the diffuse benefit to many companies). The press coverage on the other hand is almost always about the specific downside risk to specific existing jobs, which paints free trade as a job killer. TL;DR: After trade deals, the losing companies and workers tend to be concentrated, loud, and angry, but the winners tend to be diffuse and quiet. The losers drive the press narrative, but reality is much more messy and complicated. From the position of an opponent of these deals, the problem is indeed > jobs lost by Americans to cheaper labor overseas Furthermore it's the loss of ability to set tariffs that privilege domestic manufacturers, or can be used for political pressure. Fords getting outcompeted by imported Volkswagens? Hike those tariffs! (example that covers TT**I**P, same thing) The Philippines' foreign policy not to your liking? Hike those tariffs! Now, the problem is that, firstly, that job that's now gone to Bangladesh **it isn't going to replace itself**. There is a high risk that the now-unemployed person will stay unemployed because they lack the qualifications for better jobs. This creates a permanently disaffected class that survives on food stamps and crime. Furthermore, the risk of having your job outsourced overseas creates downwards pressure on *everyone's* wages. You either accept lower pay, or your employer kicks you out and moves elsewhere.
Do doctors ask if you've had any feelings of impending doom? I don't know that I would call it a "reliable indicator". It is, however, often a precursor to something serious going on. There are also people that have panic attacks all the time and will come to the ER dying from the same feeling of doom 4 times a week. For me, this applies more to the older people that generally have no issues and all of sudden being stricken with this feeling and some other suspicious malady. Source; EMT/ER nurse. It's a feeling of being kind of disconnected and frightened. Woke up during heart surgery, That's what it was like for me. I'd second the EMT/ER RN - in younger patients who are clearly anxious without significant pathology it is likely just a panic attack. I've seen older folks who are quite ill with significant infections / heart failure / pulmonary emboli (blood clots that travel from the legs to the heart) who fairly calmly state "I think I'm going to die." They end up being right a good percentage of the time. I imagine it's got to do with a release of a significant amount of stress signals, and perhaps the person recognizes that there's no way to avoid what's coming. I had a feeling of impending doom about three seconds after jumping into an icy pond while camping in the Sierra. The first thought upon entry was "hey, this isn't so cold". Then when it caught up with me there was an internal alarm that let me know my life was at risk. I would imagine if you felt that and could not escape the situation then you would know you're done. Medically speaking I don't think there's any good explanation that you are likely to get, as we are far more interested in treating the patient who says something like that than doing a study on what exactly is making them feel that way. Source: am doctor
They break apart on impact and chunks of them are found scattered around the impact site. One thing to remember is that they are generally moving very, very fast when they make impact. From [Scientific American]( URL_0 ): > When geologists and astronomers first recognized that lunar and terrestrial craters were produced by impacts, they surmised that much of the impacting body might be found still buried beneath the surface of the crater floor. (Much wasted effort was expended to locate a huge, buried nickel-iron meteorite believed to rest under the famous Barringer meteor crater near Winslow, Ariz.) Much later, however, **scientists realized that at typical solar system velocities--several to tens of kilometers per second**--any impacting body must be completely vaporized when it hits. It's also worth noting that the impact site is much, much larger than the size of the meteorite that creates it. The Barringer Meteor Crater in Arizona (mentioned above) is 1.6 km across while the meteorite itself was about 45 m across. [Here's a picture comparing the meteorite's size to the impact crater]( URL_1 ) and [here's a picture showing the largest fragment we've recovered]( URL_2 ).
Its an old wife's tale. A fever is a natural response from your immune system. If you starve yourself during that you also starve your immune system. It just people have a tenancy to throw up and keep nothing down during a fever so they tend to feed them less/they eat less. Not throwing up is important because it dehydrates you.
The air bends light very slightly, and in a somewhat random direction. These tiny changing perturbations cause lights to twinkle and shimmer. It is why the stars twinkle!
I am an EMT and it is a combination of things: * Training time. An EMT is 6 months of training. A Medic is usually another 2 years after that. So in a little over the time it takes most to get an associates degree you can be a paramedic. * Supply and Demand. While your medic isn't as prevalent as say an EMT and those aren't as in supply as people who can work an entry level job without training the pay does go up as you become more sought after. This is partly to do with how fast Medics and EMTs can be trained. There are just oodles of EMTs and still many Medics and only a limited number of jobs. * Community Resources. Big cities have more resources and can pay Paramedics more than smaller cities. Every firefighter, police officer, and EMT/Medic wants to make big money in the big city. However, for the majority of Medics in the US that work for smaller towns they simply have to cut costs where they can and this usually comes in the community service part of things. It isn't just medical, fire, and law either. Schools are seeing their budgets tighten all the time. This is just the case across the board. * Medicaid/Medicare and the Uninsured: The law says that ambulances have to treat and transport you regardless of your ability to pay and that's the way it should be. But it also puts a strain on ambulance districts in two ways and this causes or doesn't help the bullet point above. The first way is that when Medicaid and Medicare pay they don't pay full price. Surprise, the government wants to keep its costs down and will only pay a certain amount. Sure, ok. At least we get paid from those programs. But the worse thing is people without insurance because we sometimes don't see a dime from people and have to send them to collections - which is terrible to ruin someone's credit over medical bills. But at the same time it would be equally terrible to see an ambulance district not be able to afford good equipment, hire competent staff and reward that staff appropriately, or, curse the thought, close down for good, because they didn't have an income. Most community ambulance districts aren't out to make a ton of money but that extra money is nice to afford better and safer equipment and afford training for the employees. And it really is a shame too because EMTs, Police, and firefighters usually have to pay for their own training (at least some if not all) and are really great pivot points of the communities they serve. I decided to get into EMS because it was a good job to have through college and I was helping people. It gave me purpose and made me feel good (and a little bit of money was nice too) but I ultimately did not feel it was a lifelong job I could do and make a real living at because of the low wages and near nonexistent benefits in that line of work. I am a sports fan here in America. I have conversations like this quite frequently with people who say shit like "it's so unfair that pro football players make more than brain surgeons". It's all about supply and demand of the labor force. Somebody like LeBron James has a much more marketable skill than a brain surgeon, even though it could be argued that the brain surgeon as a more important job. However, the brain surgeon does not have a more *valuable* job from an economic sense. A brain surgeon is not going to sell out a stadium multiple times a year with fans willing to watch him perform surgery. And this is what you understand: the labor force in a capitalist economy is paid what they're worth economically, not morally. EMT's are common, low skilled employees that are easily replaceable. Yes, they are important, but they are nothing special. If you want a good counterexample though, there is a big shortage of nurses here in America, and therefore the salaries of nurses has gone up because hospitals have to compete with each other to attract nurses. You're not paid what you're worth. You're paid the minimum necessary to get someone with your qualifications to do the job. So long as they can get EMT's for the current salaries, the salaries won't go up. Same thing with firemen. If no one was willing to go into a burning building for less than $150,000/year, that's what we'd be paying firemen. Paramedic here, checking in late to the party, but I can offer some perspective. There are too many EMS services in the U.S. Those who do the best pay/benefits wise are those who work for large, urban or county-wide EMS systems that are funded (at least partially) by the tax base of the area that they serve. I am fortunate enough to work for a municipal system that is funded via the tax base and billing for our services. With OT, I make over $100k. Since we are a municipal system, we are ran as a public safety bureau and not like a for-profit business. Why that is important is that the finances are viewed differently than the for-profit services. My Chief's salary doesn't change based upon how much profit he can squeeze out of the budget. We are viewed by our government as a necessary public safety service instead of a money making venture. Our government knows how valuable of a service we provide to our city and understands that in order to attract good people, they need to offer a good pay/benefits package. It's the cost of providing a service, not the cost of doing business. On top of that we are unionized, which is a big help. With every contract negotiation the union is working to improve the pay and benefits that we receive. The for-profit, small town EMS systems that rely on subscriptions and billing to survive just cannot afford to offer good pay and benefits. They don't have the call volume to generate the billing revenue to bring in a ton of money, and they have to keep costs in line to remain profitable. As a result, they cannot afford to pay their employees a whole lot. That being said, many medics and EMTs will take these jobs because even though the pay isn't great, the workload is typically pretty easy, compared to what the city medics are dealing with day to day. So even if the pay is only $15/hr, a lot of guys won't mind working a slow 24hr shift once a week and then work their other jobs. Others have touched on the other issues. The relative ease of education I think is a factor, however I don't necessarily think it's as big as some other people believe it is. I don't think the answer to poor pay is requiring a bachelor's degree. The million little EMS services that are barely financially afloat cannot afford to pay much more than they currently do, regardless of if their employees have a degree or not. They simply don't have the financial resources to do so. The flip side to that is that if paramedic became a bachelor's degree, you'd end up with paramedics who would have more student debt with only a marginal increase in pay. The increased student, coupled with the still low pay, would result in even less pay to live off of due to more money being spent on student debt. TL;DR - There are too many small EMS services with poor revenue coming in that are barely surviving financially. What we need are more large, municipal, unionized, tax-funded services that are operated as public safety bureaus and NOT like for-profit businesses. Paramedics are licensed through the state, and have a larger scope of practice than nurses, though nurses take longer to get licensed in SOME scenarios. Paramedics intubate, perform surgical cricothyroidotomies (use a scalpel to open your throat and create an airway), use a large bore needle to decompress a pneumothorax (needle into a collapsed lung), insert nasogastric tubes, deliver babies, chemically sedate patients, mix medications, run entire cardiac codes, and do all of this usually on their own or with one other person, without a team, for up to forty minutes. Source: am paramedic in SoCal who makes $15.50/hour and gets minimum benefits required by law, because I have to have this on my resume to be a fireman, which I can't seem to even get an interview for because now LAFD uses a "lottery system" for applications, as a way to cherry pick minorities and females despite the fact they aren't Paramedics or volunteer firemen. I wasted my 20s and I'm very jaded. Wages are set by supply and demand. If there's a lot of people who can and are willing to do the job (relative to the number of available jobs), then the wage will go down. You know how programmers are well-paid? Remember this when principle every time you see an "everyone should learn to code!" initiative. Companies don't sponsor those out of the goodness of their hearts. It's an effort to drive down wages. It doesn't take as long to produce an EMT or paramedic as it does some other kinds of health professionals. Training entities are capable of producing a glut of these personnel, which contributes to keeping salaries artificially low. Just because it's vital doesn't mean it gets paid a lot Because pay is not based on how hard a job is, how vital or important it is, or how dangerous it is. Pay for a job is entirely based on one thing: How many people are both willing and qualified to do it for a given salary. Now, a tougher or more dangerous job might make people less willing to do it for lower pay, and a more vital job might mean there is a greater demand for those services, but so long as there are enough qualified applicants to meet that demand, there is no reason to increase the pay. former paramedic for 10 years A. Private ambulance service. Most community ambulances transportation occurs via private ambulance service that is dominated by American Medical Response. Profits drive that company and it's better to have high turnover, less experienced paramedics at lower pay scales over ones with more experience and will demand higher wages. Also the community ambulance 911 systems contract out emergency responses to a single company so that ambulance service is really the only game in town for a paramedic to work for. B. Lack of a nationwide or state level association/trade union. Firefighters, police and nursing have had strong associations to help protect wages and politically push for more protections. Most paramedics/EMTs don't have a strong association and either get a small local union representation (like SEIU) who are not specifically set up to handle the needs of first responders or none at all. C. Most people coming out of paramedic schools are young and the wage scale is set accordingly. It's a demanding job. The hours suck, the physical demands are high and the stress is unbelievably high. I was an EMT at 20 and a paramedic at 21. After 10 years I was in the top 20 on the seniority list out of 350 paramedics. The last 5 years I worked was hell I can't imagine working into my late 30s. D. Most career advancement paths involved moving into the fire service. Moving into a clinical setting is often blocked by a lot of factors including the nurses who don't want to give up duties to yet another healthcare profession. I never wanted to be a firefighter.... I hate heights and the smell of burning buildings. Most of my colleagues who stayed in the field got jobs with different fire services. I chose to get out of it completely although stayed in healthcare for about 20 years in medical devices. Employees allow it and aren't unionized. If people take the job knowing what is being paid, they make it OK. You can't negotiate when three people will take your place for less money. Also we believe management builds in additional stress and illegal actions on you encouraging you to quit so nobody builds up seniority to be needing raises. No breaks for bathroom, lunch if you're doing transports because you're always late due to over scheduling. At 500-1000 a for a 30 min transport and you're doing them all day (x8 to 12), oh yeah they're making money! You? You get $122 from a 12 hour shift (no breaks) and complaints that your not doing it fast enough. Oh yeah and your requests for maintenance on the rig brakes? Ignored for MONTHS. Source:dating an ex-emt Hello, lightly salted EMT here. I've worked for a private ambulance company for close to 2 years now. I graduated with a BS in Biochem and wanted to get medical experience in the field to bolster my resume for medical school. I took a fast track course after graduating and was working within 3 months of starting the month long course. The way things are, EMT's are "a dime a dozen" (actual words said to us upon our hiring). The EMT market is suffused with good natured people that may not have much of a formal education, to the point where I'm happy to be making over 10$ an hour. Most companies, especially privately owned, really only care about the money. Quality of care, good transport times, etc. are only fulfilled so more contracts with hospitals can be maintained. Paramedics make pretty decent money here, over 20$ an hour, with some of the senior medics making around 26$. However, when it's now possible for an 18 year old to be hired as an EMT I'm not surprised the pay is so shit. A major reason for this disparity is that EMTs are barely allowed to perform any medicine since the patient must "always be under the highest level of care," thus the medics do all the real work and are in the back of the ambo. So, tldr, EMT cert is easy to get, thus there are too many of them, furthermore often treated as just ambulance drivers instead of an important facet of the EMS process. Luckily, overtime is plentiful and the only way to make a bit of dosh. Also, fucking driving with lights and sirens, that shit dangerous. Vital job that needs fairly little training and has lots of people who want to do it. It is an awesome and rewarding job, but only needs a few weeks of training before you can start your entry-level position. Compare that to nurse that needs several years of training. Supply and demand. As long as many people want to be an EMT and are willing to accept the going rate, nothing will change. I'm quite happy that we get such good service for an economical rate. Trash collectors and janitors are absolutely vital to our health and welfare. If we didn't have sanitation, our cities would be overrun with disease vectors. And yet they get paid next to nothing. Why? Because it is a low-skill, low-demand job. Literally anyone can be a sanitation worker with little or no training. Same with EMTs. An EMTB takes a 30 day class and a certification test. A Paramedic is usually a certificate or an Associate's Degree. These are not difficult credentials to acquire. If EMTs were rare and required significant amounts of training (as in Graduate or Doctorate level) then they would command commensurately higher salaries. Because in America we don't pay people based on their value to society (cops, firefighters, social workers). We pay them based on what people want to spend their money on (entertainment, etc...) overall relatively low skill, although important. A lot of people can do that job so there is high labor supply Several reasons. Modern EMS has only existed for forty or so years. In most states, EMS is not a guaranteed service like police, fire, or sanitation. Police, fire, and sanitation won most of their labored rights back in the 1950's, when they were allowed to protest, in uniform. Public education: Most people rarely if ever need us, so they don't give a shit. Most people can tell who their Fire Department is, and who provides policing services to them, but couldn't tell if they're coveyed by a municipal third service, a fire based service, a contracted commercial service, a hospital based service, etc etc. So it's hard for us to fight for labor rights and wage increases. We are, and will be for quite some time, the bastards step child of both the medical system and the public safety system in this country. Salary is not tied to how critical your job function is -it's based on how difficult you are to replace. Because people do the job, despite the low pay. Many towns even have volunteer EMS services. People literally will work as EMTs and paramedics for free. The fire and ambulance squad in the small town I am from is completely volunteer. I often wonder what would happen if no one was willing to do it... Volunteer EMS personnel worsen the wage situation. Imagine if your town was filled with lots of slutty girls who give it up for free. Prostitutes who expect to be paid for sex couldn't make much money. It's the same here in PA. If citizens want EMS and fire protection, then government has a responsibility to provide it. As long as volunteers keep giving it away, elected officials aren't compelled to fund it. Since when do wages rely on how "vital" someone's job is? Janitors keep us safe from disease on a vast scale. I don't see many of them driving Bentleys. Wages, as with all things money, are determined by supply and demand (except where the market is distorted by regulations). The bigger question is: ELI5: Why does anyone get paid what they get paid in the first place? Short answer: supply and demand. It's not about how "vital" their jobs are in anyone's opinion. It's about the market value of their labor. Is it fair? No. Why would you want it to be fair? Lots of "supply and demand" and "capitalism" comments here. But EMS doesn't really work that way. There are shortages of EMTs and paramedics all over the country (just not necessarily in the large urban areas, though i have heard some rumblings there lately too). Many rural areas are actually losing their local service because of a lack of volunteer EMTs. And that word "volunteer" is part of the problem. Great that people want to help people. But as in many other things, payors will lump all providers together. A large urban service and a small town volunteer service will get paid the same by Medicare (and since most insurers follow their lead, everyone else). And long ago, the payors decided that they would only pay for actual transports, not "readiness" for waiting crews. So if your local squad charges nothing per call (other than a membership or small tax levy), they average that with the private service that charges a couple grand. And with some kind of new math, most insurers will only pay a couple hundred dollars per transport (and may not pay anything at all for assessing someone, treating them and releasing them to family, which leads to services encouraging transports that may not be necessary). And since this rate is almost never revisited, not even to match cost-of-living increases, the employers cannot raise wages without some other source of money. This is why private, non-tax based, services usually pay less. They cannot absorb the loss that government entities can. Education has almost no relevance to wages. Many police and firefighters make more than EMTs/medics. And only a couple of states require more than a high school diploma for either. I don't want to get into a nurse vs paramedic debate, but a 2 year RN actually spends less time in clinicals than a 2 year paramedic grad in a program that follows the national standard. If you are smart enough to be a paramedic, you are smart enough to be a nurse. We are also hampered by disjointed and often adversarial organizations that represent EMS. The fire guys have strong groups all the way up to chief's associations. But they have different priorities from the private ambulance associations and the rural/volunteer groups (never seen a "volunteer nurse's association"). This leads to confusion for lawmakers. Maybe we could copy the Australian model, but that would take some doing, since it can only exist in a socialized health system.
It's usually dehydration. When you go 9 hours or more without drinking water you become dehydrated regardless of whether you're awake or asleep. Try drinking a glass of water before you go to bed and keeping another full glass by your bed so you can drink if you wake up during the night. It could be one of a couple reasons 1. You slept weird. Your head was smooshed or your neck stretched and it gave you a headache 2. You didnt eat or drink while you slept did you? Sometimes when you get hungry or thirsty you get a headache 3. Some people grind their teeth when they sleep. That could give you a headache Headaches are common when you oversleep, and they have a name: "weekend headaches." For some people, it may be related to neurotransmitters. Your body follows a fairly consistent and precise schedule. When you oversleep, you throw your schedule off-balance and it makes your brain and body grumpy, literally. That's also why you feel groggy and a bit out of it when you sleep more than usual. It is also posited to be the result of caffeine withdrawal (you aren't tossing coffee into your face as early as your body expects it) and/or stress (thinking about stuff you left at work, thinking about everything you have to get done over the weekend, etc.). However, there's a lot that we just don't know. Oversleeping often can be a sign of a medical condition or illness, everything from depression to sleep apnea to diabetes to heart problems. And it's pretty bad for health outcomes in general. I mean, certain health websites list death as a complication of oversleeping, and they're not being entirely hyperbolic. Think about talking to a doctor if you regularly sleep more than nine hours a night. The dehydration stuff isn't a full explanation. Sure, you lose water when you breathe and you aren't taking in water while you sleep. But bodies are made to handle sleep--we aren't delicate creatures who wither overnight. Sleeping an extra hour isn't going to cause massive headache-level dehydration unless something is already wrong. If you have a dry mouth, it's probably because you sleep with your mouth open or snore. If you feel thirsty, it's because you haven't had anything to drink for a while. To be frank: if it's something you read on a website that also talks about adrenal fatigue and detoxification, proceed with caution.
The phrase “paint the town red” most likely owes its origin to one legendary night of drunkenness. In 1837, the Marquis of Waterford—a known lush and mischief maker—led a group of friends on a night of drinking through the English town of Melton Mowbray. The bender culminated in vandalism after Waterford and his fellow revelers knocked over flowerpots, pulled knockers off of doors and broke the windows of some of the town’s buildings. To top it all off, the mob literally painted a tollgate, the doors of several homes and a swan statue with red paint. The marquis and his pranksters later compensated Melton for the damages, but their drunken escapade is likely the reason that “paint the town red” became shorthand for a wild night out. Still yet another theory suggests the phrase was actually born out of the brothels of the American West, and referred to men behaving as though their whole town were a red-light district. [Source]( URL_0 )
Well basically Pemex raised the rate to rougly 16 pesos per litre. That's roughly $1.30 Canadian. But the minimum wage remains around 80 pesos/day. So people are looting in rebellion, but also to get the stuff they need. But there's been some speculation that the government is arranging the lootings Some context is needed first. For years, all energy products had to be purchased through a monolithic organization called Pemex which was the only entity in Mexico allowed to purchase the product from the producers. Pemex then sold this to distributors, sometimes using heavy government subsidies. In 2013, however, the government passed an energy reform bill that was to remove power from Pemex in phases that kicked in at the beginning of the year. This was to make the market more competitive, and made Pemex go from having a government-sponsored monopoly to being a government-owned competing business. Over the past year, the Mexican Peso has devalued significantly from the last few years hovering around 13-15 pesos per US dollar to today's price of 22 pesos per dollar. Oil, being handled in US dollars, would thus be relatively more expensive as the peso has devalued. However, because Pemex still controlled gasoline they heavily subsidized the price of gasoline to remain relatively stable. The 2017 phase of the energy reform kicked in at the beginning of the year though, and has raised the price of gas to be more in line with what it should be. It should be noted that the government is STILL somewhat subsidizing gas, and that people's requests for the government to subsidize gasoline again would just add to income inequality by putting money hand over fist in the hands of the rich. The other request people have is to lower the amount the government taxes gasoline from the current 3.5 pesos per liter of gasoline, but this will put a heavy dent in the government's income. It's a difficult situation all around
Conceptually that is possible. However most of the time when we talk about "nuclear missiles" we are referring to the concept of an "ICBM" or intercontinental ballistic missile. That type of missile fires between continents which means that its most vulnerable time, when it it is first launching, happens deep inside the territory of the nation which is performing the launch. Other people can't shoot it down because it is over the horizon from where they are and nothing they have could get there fast enough even if they could see it. Other stages of the flight are even harder to interrupt. The main cruise of the missile happens in space, a near-orbit curve that can lob the missile halfway around the planet. It doesn't even need engines at this point (hence the "ballistic" part) and it is difficult to even spot the object much less get to it. Finally it enters the atmosphere over the target *screaming fast*. Modern missiles can come in at about 7 kilometers per second, which means transitioning from space until they impact their target would take less than 15 seconds. If you want to shoot it down you have to get something to it, and 15 seconds isn't long enough to take a decent dump in your pants much less hit it with a rocket. They go really, really fast. It is like trying to shoot down a bullet with a bullet. There are anti-missile system out there, but they are very complicated, expense and not completely reliable. Any know what is easier then developing an effective anti-missile system? Building more missiles than it can handle. The thing to realize is that, in an actual nuclear war, there wouldn't be a single nuclear missile launched. There would be *hundreds*, all aimed at different targets (and likely multiple aimed at each target). And ICBMs (Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles) are *fast*. They actually go up out of the atmosphere into a sub-orbital trajectory, and then streak back down at speeds of about 4 miles **per second**. Hitting even one of those with another weapon is *very* hard to do, and doesn't always work. Hitting dozens of them aimed at a city, for dozens of different cities? Probably no gonna happen. ICBM's are fast, they carry multiple warheads, and they are hard to track. There are so many missiles that the number of missiles required to destroy all of the missiles launched would be very high. Take into consideration that each ICBM carries multiple warheads, it further multiplies the number of anti missile missiles required. Some of the defensive missiles would miss. It would also be very expensive to make and maintain all of the defensive missiles. The best time to shoot down an ICBM would be at launch when all the warheads are still in one place. This would require satellites with anti missiles missiles hovering over the launch areas. There are anti satellite missiles that can shoot satellites down. This is truly an arm's race that for every new offense, a new defence was created or dreamed up. For every new defence, a new offence was created or dreamed. Thus, diplomatic solutions were the only real feasible solutions. That is possible, but very difficult. ICBMs (Inter-continental Ballistic Missiles, aka the big nukes sitting in silos in Montana) are sub-orbital weapons. They fully leave the atmosphere before starting their descent onto the target. 95% of the missile you see only has the job of lifting the warhead. The nuclear weapon itself is contained in a very small reentry vehicle that comes screaming down from space at a ridiculous speed, trailing a giant streamer of superhot plasma behind it. Just tracking something that small going that fast is a very difficult problem. Actually hitting it with another missile is incredibly difficult and is made more difficult by the fact that modern ICBMs carry with them numerous very advanced penetration aids to confuse or decoy intercept systems. This is why early (and current Russian) anti-ICBM systems relied on nuclear interceptors with enhanced radiation warheads to fry incoming weapons with gamma rays and EMP. The problem there is that to intercept the nukes you're setting off hundreds of your own nuclear detonations in the sky above your country.
Aggressive reaction syndrome (ASR). It is commonly found in primates and is a response of the enlarged amygdala. When we get angry it's essentially the amygdala taking over and telling the brain it's time to get physical and assert ourself. Since we're social animals with complex hierarchies it's important to show others that we're strong and capable. I don't think this is a universal feeling. If anything breaking something seems to ramp up my aggression and anger because I feel dumb for doing that.
Absolutely not. If you have ever looked into something's eyes when they die the pupils dilate and focus become unfixed. The eyes begin to look waxy. The spark of life you literally see leave their eyes. Its the most heartbreaking thing I have ever seen. I know this because I work with wild animals, wildlife. I have seen many animals die and it never ceases to be something that signifies the intake is dead. It's horrible. I hate it. But it's legitimately also metaphor for the soul leaving the body. The scientific reason is merely a cumulative effect of small, almost unnoticeable things. While alive the eyes constantly vibrate back and forth, unnoticeable to you (it's an evolutionary 'trick' that makes you not blind, associated with change detection). There's also dilation of the pupils in response to light and conscious movements on the part of the now deceased. When all of this stops suddenly due to the cessation of electrical signals from the now dead brain, it looks unnatural to your mind. I saw it when my mom passed. She died anf was just gone. There's no doubt about it, once life leaves what is left was just a shell. I watched my grandfather pass and seeing his natural luster in his eye just die, killed me. This is certainly not a metaphor, a certain sparkle is loss in the process of dying, you only realize it on their last breath though. I don't know the scientific reason, but from personal experience, the lights do go out. Why the moment of death is associated with this I'm not 100%, though my best guess is before stethoscopes and modern medical tech, people looked into somebody's eye to see if their were indeed dead. But that's my best guess. Idk if it's different with people but I was with my dog when she passed a few years ago and i think it's more metaphorical. You can see something though, Idk how to explain it really. It's kinda like you can see their eyes stop functioning, all those little movements, the way they focus on something, one second that's all there and the next everything is still and, well lifeless, almost like a machine powering down and coming to a complete stop. Not sure if this is correct or not but it's my experience with it. Your eyes are lubricated with fluids when you blink. The layer of fluid is thin and dries quickly, hence why we blink. After death you stop lubricating your eyes and the lubricant dries, resulting in a loss of sheen. In the Illiad, Homer describes several warriors' deaths with similar imagery. Examples: *And Eurypylus, son of Euaemon, killed Hypsenor, the son of noble Dolopion, who had been made priest of the river Scamander, and was honoured among the people as though he were a god. Eurypylus gave him chase as he was flying before him, smote him with his sword upon the arm, and lopped his strong hand from off it. The bloody hand fell to the ground, and the shades of death, with fate that no man can withstand, came over his eyes.* And (although Aeneas does not die here): *The hero fell on his knees, and propped himself with his hand resting on the ground till the darkness of night fell upon his eyes.* But actually in most of the epic, a death is described as someone "falling to the ground." Interesting that the light leaving the eyes (which is how I interpret the shade/darkness falling on them) was associated with death even 3,000 years ago. I seen it in my grandmother when she passed away a few years back, it is literally like a light going out, one minute the eyes are there, focused on you, the next they aren't, the focus is gone, it's like they're looking straight through you, like wax model eyes. It's a strange feeling, to see it happen, the body just kinda switches off and that's it... nothing more, just a shell now. The scary part was when it happened to my dad when he was knocked out for some surgery, his eyes did the whole glaze thing and he went a bit limp, my eyes shot for the anaesthetist, he pointed at the ECG machine, heart still ticking, just sleeping. That scared me... There's an immediate change in the eye when someone dies, if their eyes are open, because there's no longer any focus to maintain, so there is a dramatic effect. But the "light" is somewhat of an exaggeration, naturally, based on the emotion of the experience. Having opened thousands of body bags, I can confirm that some dead people look just totally alive including the eyes. It's always a little creepy when you unzip and they just happen to be looking straight at you with clear eyes, because 19/20 times they're closed or not looking at you or deflated, bandaged etc. I have let out a small yelp when I was doing things mechanically whilst talking to a coworkers only to be met with a crisp fixed stare from the table.
Many answers here are misguided. Think of your body as a machine. When it's cold out it's occupied trying to warm you up. It pulls resources away from other areas for this. At body temperature, the cells responded with a sophisticated defense, sending out warning signals to uninfected cells around them. Those cells prepared an arsenal of antiviral proteins, which they used to destroy the rhinoviruses. > But at a relatively cool 91.4 degrees Fahrenheit, Dr. Iwasaki and her colleagues found, things changed. > The neighboring cells only managed a weak defense, allowing the rhinoviruses to invade them and multiply. This result pointed to an explanation for why rhinoviruses plague humans at low temperatures: In cool conditions, the immune system somehow falters URL_0 Nope, the common cold is a result of infection with rhinovirus or some other viruses. You could stay in a (disinfected previously) freezer at -20°C for a while and get out, and the only thing you'll get is hypothermia. you are pretty close...its not the temperature that gets you sick...its the viruses that are more easily spread in the winter months because people are spending nearly all their time in close quarters indoors. I wrote a paper on this early in masters peogram, iirc the consensus is that cold exposure can alter neuro, endo, and immuno function slightly perhaps, and prolonged cold exposure likely caused a slight increase in our susceptibility, but as others posted it is most likely close quarters, runny noses, etc that create the cold and flu season timing with cold weatjer
they're tiny. and far away. the total mass of the asteroid belt is like 5% of our moon. and they're spread out over a much MUCH bigger area. our asteroid belt is not like the asteroid field in Empire Strikes Back. The Asteroid belt cannot combine due to Jupiter. Jupiter's gravity tears apart anything that gets too big. The Kuiper belt is too spaced out. But it does have a number of dwarf planets like Pluto.
Your stomach is filled with a somewhat weak acid. Throwing up acid is unpleasant, and can damage soft tissues in your mouth and throat. To combat this, your body produces extra saliva to coat your mouth and throat with a little bit of extra protection. Also pro tip if you start to salivate and feel nauseous, don't swallow the saliva! Spit it out, keep it in your mouth, gargle it if you have to. You won't be sick as long as you don't swallow it. I'll try to find the post that explained why, but it acts as a trigger to your stomach that your throat and mouth etc have been suitable protected from the stomach acid. It at least buys you a few minutes to get to a bathroom. Edit: post discussing this - URL_0
This is called "OVS" or "Object - Verb - Subject" which is a reversal of the standard SOV order (Subject - Object - Verb). It is technically allowed if the sentence can still be properly parsed (typically if there's pronouns that help show the meaning). Rare examples of valid, if idiomatic, English use of OVS typology are the poetic hyperbaton 'Answer gave he none' and 'what say you?' A hyperbaton is a reversal or change in word order or the separation of words that are normally found together. It is more common in languages where word order doesn't contribute as much to sentence meaning, in order to provide emphasis to whatever words do come first. So in this sentence, it is poetic, and denotes more importance being placed on the earlier parts of the sentence: the "never". That sentence is something you will never see written by English speakers nor will you ever hear. Then again it is poetry so it might be a sentence bent to make a rhyme or for some other reason. Poetry does sometimes change the rules. Your are confused for a good reason. You now know enough of English to know when something isn't right. And it isn't you. Good luck with your studies.
Let's use a 1-pound chocolate bar. Multiplication: if you have a 4 count of 1-pound chocolate bars, you have 4 pounds of chocolate. If you have no 1-pound chocolate bars, you have 0 pounds of chocolate. Makes perfect sense. Division: If you cut the chocolate bar into 4 equal parts, each part is 4 ounces (1/4 of a pound). But try cutting a chocolate bar into zero equal parts... conceptually that makes no sense. If you say that this means removing or destroying the chocolate bar, that would actually be subtraction. In effect, you want to collapse the chocolate bar into fewer than one piece but still expect all 16 ounces of chocolate to still be present in this space where there is no chocolate bar. Let us look at the number 10 10 / 2 = 5 Dividing by 2 gives us half 10 / 1 = 10 Dividing by 1 gives us the same number 10 / 0.5 = 20 Dividing by a half doubles the number 10 / 0.25 = 40 Dividing by a quarter quadruples the number. So, the smaller the number we divide by, the bigger the result. This suggest that dividing by 0 should give us infinite. However, let us look at it from the other end of the number line: 10 / -2 = -5 Dividing by -2 gives us minus a half 10 / -1 = 10 Dividing by -1 gives us the same number, only negative 10 / -0.5 = -20 Dividing by a half doubles the number, only negative 10 / -0.25 = -40 Dividing by a quarter quadruples the number, only negative. So the closer we move to zero from the negative direction, the closer the result moves towards minus infinite. This suggest that dividing by 0 should result in minus infinite. I don't think 2 results can be further away from each other than infinite and minus infinite. 0/0 is undefined precisely *because* x \* 0 = 0 for any x. So, think about the relationship between multiplication and division. It is similar to the relationship between addition and subtraction, they undo one another, if you will. In other words, we would like it to be the case that a \* x / x = a for any a and any x. This is just fine as long as x isn't 0. But look at what happens when x = 0. 1 \* 0 = 0 So, if I want my above undo rule to hold, since 0 = 1 \* 0, it must be the case that 0 / 0 = (1 \* 0) / 0 = 1 Okay, great! So 0 / 0 is 1, right? But... 2 \* 0 = 0 So, if I still insist that the undo rule holds, and I also know that 0 = 2 \* 0, then... 0 / 0 = (2 \* 0) / 0 = 2 So, 1 = 0 / 0 = 2. Oh no. That's no good. Clearly 1 isn't equal to 2. So, how do we remedy this problem? Well, where is the problem? The problem is that we decided that division by 0 *could* mean something. 5 year old explanation: Imagine you have a room with 5 people in it. A pizza is on the table in the room. If the pizza has 20 slices each person gets 4 slices. Now what if you have the same situation with a 20 slice pizza but there are 0 people in the room. Now how many slices does each person recieve... If there are no people to divide up the slices than there is no conceivable answer to this problem. 0 x 0 is the same as 0 + 0, just as 2 x 2 is 2 + 2. Nothing added to nothing is nothing. 0/0 is asking how many nothings could I fit into nothing? Who knows. There's no real answer. I'll try for an intuitive approach. Let's have a*b=c Let's define division as a slight reordering of this into a=c/b So 0/0 is not undefined but indeterminate. This distinction is important because the number itself IS defined, but cannot be determined as it has an infinite number of valid solutions. To see this, let's try plugging in 0 for c and b (to give us our 0/0) and rearrange it into our first equation a*0=0 Well shoot, that's true no matter what value we put in for a. This is why it's indeterminate. Now let's try division by zero where the numerator isn't 0. Let's try c=1 and b=0 a*0=1 Well as we can see, we run into a problem. What value of a can possibly make this true? None of them can. There is no value of a that can ever be multiplied by zero to give us an answer of anything BUT zero. Using *this specific definition of division*, it's easy to see why division by zero is undefined. There IS a way to give division by zero a definition but that starts going into beginnings of calculus :)
Basically, anything that is installed on your pc can be read, written or be modified. So they aren't exploiting weaknesses in the game code, rather, its impossible to prevent someone with admin rights from altering the game if they desire. (It can however, be made very hard) What online games CAN do is simply not tell the pc the information it needs until its fair/legal/proper for them to know. so you could prevent a wallhack/maphack by not telling the computer of the player where the player is, until the server has verified that you should be able to see him. Most Moba's do this, hence there aren't any maphacks for LoL/Dota, FPS games have more lag issues so they can't really implement the above scenario without causing gameplay problems.
When you are sick you get increased mucus production. The mucus covers the surfaces inside your throat and is usually not an issue. However if you have too much it can start to flow and clump up. When you cough you push these clumps up the throat and it mixes with the rest of the mucus. This is why there might not come anything out. Making sure to clean out as much mucus as you can will help your breathing and reduce the coughing. A couple of points in addition to those mentioned. There is continuous production of mucus in the lungs. There is a ciliary (little hairs on cells) action that moves this up into the throat to be swallowed or expelled. Then there is mucus production in the nose that can drip posteriorly. In addition to mucus, however, remember that when you have a cold or the flu there is usually viral infection and inflammation. This inflammation, the body's response to infection (and other insults), directly irritates the tissues and causes coughing presumably to accelerate expulsion of the insulting agent and mucus. This irritation can persist beyond the initial insult.
I would assume this would be an unconscious effort to regain a sense of balance, control, and composure. We use our arms in locomotion for balance, so when our balance or equilibrium is interrupted (ie you take a fall), your body (which is really just a complex machine) engages its upper quadrant balance control modules, the arms, in an attempt to remain or end up topside up. Perhaps. As you should recall, for every action there is an equal and opposite reaction. Swinging your arms in a circle in one direction will push your torso to rotate in the other direction. Moving our arms in this way will act to keep our body aligned such that we can land on our legs. The behavior is instinctive.
The water pressure in your pipes is due to gravity pulling the water down from the water tower; there's no extra pumps to give you water pressure. Once the water is pumped up into the tower, that stores the energy to push the water out of your water taps. So, since it's gravity pushing down, a water tower can't push water back up to the height it's stored in the tower, which is why tall buildings have their own water towers -- that provides water pressure for the upper floors in the building, because the regular water pressure can't push the water up that high. Also, this has a financial incentive, in that mulicipalities can pump their water into the towers during off-hour power times, where electricity is cheaper.
Because the time zones go from UTC-12 to UTC+14. Specifically, the cause is several islands in the Pacific Ocean such as Kiribati. Kiribati is an island nation whose islands are spread across three times zones. Normally, these time zones would have been UTC+12, UTC-11 and UTC-10. The problem is that it would put one part of Kiribati a day ahead of the rest of it. So instead they chose to move the rest of Kiribati one day ahead, so their time zones are UTC+13 and UTC+14 instead of UTC-11 and UTC-10. I'm not sure why they didn't just choose UTC-12, UTC-11 and UTC-10 instead, but I'm guessing it's so that they will be on the same days as the islands west of Kiribati instead of the islands east of it. There are two times zones east of the 180^o meridian. People there, with islands west of the meridian more than with North America, so they keep on the same day. That way they share the same weekends and weekdays, making it easier for business and government to interact. Also, this change was first made in 1995, no doubt in part to capitalize on being the first place on earth to see the year 2000.
URL_0 has a different IP address than URL_1 . When enter that address into your browser, it goes directly there, without every going to URL_1 . The part after the slash is information the website used to figure out what to do with your request. /status tells URL_1 to display a page about status, /products will display a page about products, most likely. Here's the tricky part. The website can be configured to *redirect* you somewhere else. The website that handles URL_0 could just send you to URL_1 /status...and vice versa. What you initially requested might not be where you wind up. A long time ago, computers were identified on a network by IP address only. This was easy...as there were only a very small number of computers. When things got a but more busy, the industry came up with a concept called Domain Name System. This was a concept to map the thousands (millions!!) of possible IP addresses to an easy to remember name. DNS has a hierarchy. Initially, there were only a few *top level* domains... like .com and .net and so on. Under these, could be created any number of subdomains... like URL_1 , or even URL_0 . In all these cases, these DNS entries needed to *resolve* to an IP address. The stuff *after* the .com (/status) is information used to find *resources* on available on the IP address in the first part. Put together, this is called URL. So, in brief, the first part identifies the place to look, and the second, the specific stuff to look for. As you might imagine, the DNS part is a bit tougher to change (as it's regulated world wide), and the second part is very easy...developers / web admins /etc can create resources very dynamically. To break things down, let's move to an example address: URL_3 This address is broken down I to: Protocol (http://) Subdomain (sub) Domain (example) Top Level Domain (com) Resource (index.html) The way domains work (using your example), is that Apple owns the domain " URL_1 ". This means they can "point" or "map" that domain, or any subdomain under that domain ( URL_0 ) to whatever servers/addresses they want. What happens when you go to URL_0 , is that your computer first checks something called a DNS Server, which is essentially an address book for the internet. It sends " URL_0 " to a DNS server, and that server says, "Hey there, the website you're looking for is at 192.168.0.1!" (Example address). Your computer then goes, "Okay, I'll look there!" And sends a message to the computer located at the address 192.168.0.1 saying it's looking for " URL_0 ". In this case, the computer checks its own records and says, "Oh yeah, that's me! Go see URL_1 /status!" What's happened here is that the server has a record saying that URL_0 is just a shortcut so to speak to get to URL_1 /status. Alternatively it could also just have a completely different website instead of a redirect. In this case, your computer ends up sending a request for the resource/file "status" on the URL_1 domain.
Credit cards are like small monthly loans. If you pay off the full balance of the card each month, you do not pay interest at all. This is the "best" way to use a credit card. Credit cards hurt you when you do not have the self control to only put on the card what you can afford to pay off at the end of the month. If you carry a balance (only pay some of it off each month), you get charged a VERY high interest rate. This is where people fall in to traps... they put thousands of dollars on the card when they can only afford to pay a few hundred dollars each month. You can easily build credit doing the following: Get a no-yearly-fee credit card and only put a tiny amount of money on it. Maybe 1 tank of gas per month. Pay off the entire credit card each month. Finance a car that you can easily afford; make every payment on time and never miss or be late on one. After a few years, your credit will be respectable. Generally if you pay off the full amount you owe, each month when the bill arrives, you won't be charged any interest. It's only when you leave something unpaid on your account until the next month that you start to get charged interest. In case you're wondering how they make any money if you always pay off everything immediately: they charge the seller a fee of 2-4 percent of the transaction when you buy with a credit card.
The air doesn't have to be "new." Mold spores can lay dormant for a significant amount of time before starting to grow. If there's mold growing inside a sealed container then the spores went in before it was sealed. They are in the container, because you put them in there, however unwillingly, along with whatever food and/or air you put in there in the first place. If there are mold/fungus in the air that is in the sealed container when it is sealed, that would cause growth. In containers where it's not easy to make them vacuum sealed (think cans of fish), they seal the food in and then heat it up to a high enough temperature to kill off the microbes.
Immediately after the collapse, there was a major increase in homelessness, joblessness, and other social ills we see in the modern world. In the USSR, you had a job, you had an apartment, and if you were a disfunctional alcoholic, it didn't matter. After the fall, jobs went away because why keep factories open that don't make money? In the next decade, Russia was a political trainwreck. The people on the top pretty much just took all of the state owned assets and traded them to eachother, instantly making generals and communist party officials into the oligarch class we see today. It was a sort of "buyout" deal, where rich people could get loans from the government for essentially nothing as a stimulus package. THese rich people were then able to buy large majorities in previously state owned enterprises, but the values of these companies were extremely undervalued. In the end, the people that had the most friends at the top became wealthy oil and gas mogols. Cue the 2000's... people got fucking sick of social and political turmoil. As a decade had passed since the collapse, enough time had passed for there to be a rather large generational split, where the older people looked back at the soviet system as being a more fair and better society. They had jobs, homes, security, and they knew who was in charge of collecting bribes. The president of Russia at the time knew he couldn't run for office again, and he was afraid that the next guy to take power might look back at the decade of state-asset looting and decide to arrest him and his friends. So in a stroke of wisdom, he sought out an ally that he could trust to maintain the same power dynamic that he helped build and could garantee that he is not arrested for corruption upon standing down. He groomed a former KGB officer named Vladimir-Putin to be his eventual replacement. At first, there was a push to get rid of the corrupt politicians and whatnot, but when Putin put down the Chechnyan rebels in the Caucus region (Pretty much a terrorist group trained in the middle east and fought for autonomy from Russia) the older russians saw the strong man that they had longed for. Instead of using diplomacy to find a peaceful resolution to the crisis, Putin ordered tanks and Spec Ops to go in and fucking blow the terrorists away. Anywho, Putin successfully won the first election to make him president and then he slowly began dismantleing the democratic rules put in place by Russia's constitution. Coincidentally, the price of oil and gas hit all-time highs during his first two terms as president, so he was able to pay for more social programs and whatnot that were cancelled after the fall of the USSR. in the following decade, he rooted out all serious political threats, consolidate power in the presidency and created the mythically manly man image he has today. ELI5: Before the fall, Russia was a shitty place, but people felt secure in their lives. After the fall, Russia was even shittier and nobody but the super wealthy and connected felt secure. Life for average Russians was difficult. A decade or so after the collapse, the country began sifting toward more of the USSR politics again. Today, the power is pretty much consolidated in the same power circles as before the collapse and people are split along generational lines if this is a good thing. The Soviet Union was 14 different republics, one of which was Russia. Russia today is significantly smaller population wise and somewhat smaller land wise because Lithauania, Latvia, Estonia, Belarus, Ukraine, Azerbijan, Armenia, Georgia, Khazekstan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Tajikistan, and Kyrgyzstan are independent countries. I'm not an expert by any means, but I remember seeing a documentary in school about it. Apparently the shift was jarring. Many people lost jobs they were secure in because they were government based. Almost all job security went out the window, something I think they're still struggling with. Like I said, I'm not an expert nor have I researched this, but that's what I have to offer. Sorry I can't answer the full question, hopefully someone else jumps on this because I'm very curious as well
Actually both urination and defecation (peeing and pooping) are very common when extremely afraid. This is caused by your bodies "fight or flight" reactions ignoring nonessential muscles such as the sphincter muscles that prevent you from randomly leaking piss. You don't do other discharges, such as vomiting, because vomiting is a very active process, it requires a ton of muscular effort to do it. Peeing and pooping though? Gravity and internal pressure take over very easily since the muscles that work for that PREVENT it, so when your body ignores nonessential functions, you start leaking.
> Is it true? Does this improve the prognosis? Why?Is it true? Does this improve the prognosis? Why? No, it doesn't help them live. But what it can do is identify health threats which would otherwise be difficult to detect. Someone who has hit their head needs to remain awake because a brain bleed needs immediate attention and is basically undetectable if the victim is asleep. If they are awake you could notice them becoming incoherent and falling unconscious. > In many action movies we see how paramedics etc. prevent injured person from loosing consciousness, In movies allowing your actors to fall asleep in a scene is generally bad for the movie because there is a really limited range of acting they can perform while miming unconsciousness. > It does not. It is used to determine the patients ability to stay conscious. If it doesn't work anymore, the situation has gotten worse. As a side note, this method only tests their response to verbal stimuli. Another method is testing their response to painful stimuli, such as pinching the trapezius muscle or sternal rubs. These allow medics to place a patient on the AVPU scale of alert, responds to verbal, responds to pain, unresponsive. & nbsp; > As for the logic behind "stay with me bro!" etc etc it's to keep someone from going into shock and mentally shutting down, usually in a combat/disaster situation. If someone is losing blood and they think they're going to die, shock starts to set in and they get caught in the opposite loop. Instead of calmly fading out they get so jacked up that they are making their injuries worse; i.e. with a lost a limb, going into shock pumps the blood out faster so they're bleeding out faster. So while you're applying a Combat Application Tourniquet, you need to try to calm them down and get them focused on providing buddy aid/self aid and returning fire. If you can get them to calm the fugg down and return fire you can focus on saving the leg or whatever [From a similar question asked before.]( URL_0 ) The reasons are many and varied and it is important. Especially in a trauma situation the victims tend to be tight and tense, which is a very good thing since the tightening of muscle groups can cause a vascular constriction that can greatly aid in limiting blood loss. It so happens that in some cases, when rescuers arrive, the injured feel safe and relax, the result is often times not good. Also, as long as the person is awake, the will to survive is helping.
The earth orbits the sun in an ellipse which means it moves faster when it's closer to the sun. This makes the sun appear to move fastest across the sky in January and slowest in July. If you stick with pure sundial time (noon is when the sun is highest in the sky) then the length of the day varies a little and you don't see the effect you're describing. This time is called Local Apparent Time (LAT). Around 1800 common clocks were accurate enough that people started changing to a system where all the days were the same length. This is called Local Mean Time (LMT). This means that apparent noon is no longer exactly at 12:00pm each day, but can be up to 16 minutes different depending of the time of year. The difference between LAT and LMT is called the Equation of Time which can be shown as a list of how many minutes to adjust given the day of the year. Some sundials include such a correction table to allow you to convert to LMT. It's the day-to-day change in the Equation of Time that stops sunrise and sunset times from being symmetrical. The most obvious effect is that the shortest day (solstice) is around 21 December but (in NYC) latest sunrise is not until around 4 January and earliest sunset is around 8 December. The exact dates will vary slightly on different years.
Everyone loves a good story. It's entertaining and lets us sort of escape for a little while from the real world. Even if the story is kinda crap we still usually want to know how it ends because we want closure. We want to know why the bad people did the bad things. We want to know how the good people saved the day. If the ending doesn't make sense or is shitty, we feel cheated. As for stopping in the middle of a book...well, aside from what I stated above, I suppose it feels unnatural because we are all essentially in the middle of our own stories. This is a little cheesy, but sod it; we are all part of neverending story, one that began long before we were born and will go on long after we die. Every day is a new page in our own individual story/life and we can't just stop, can we? We have to keep going. We have no choice. So, perhaps that's why we have to keep reading. When we're reading we feel like we're right there with Harry Potter, Bastian Bux, Nancy Drew, Katniss Everdeen, Lionel McGee, Connor Adams, Arthur Dent, etc. So we gotta know what happens next.
When you're out of tune, it's because you're slightly off of a note. When the two notes are close together but not exactly the same, then it sounds a whole lot worse because of dissonance. That's why when you're tuning a note, you can hear a little wavy "wubbing" sound. The closer you get to the target pitch, the faster the wubbing is until it dissapears completely. Scientifically speaking, it's because the frequencies of the notes are slightly different, so the sound waves don't quite line up.
Regardless of their status, every child in America has a legal right to a K-12 education. There was a supreme court case that makes it illegal for schools to require anything only a legal citizen could obtain (social security number) or inquire about anything that may out their parents as illegal immigrants. Housing discrimination based on immigration status is illegal also. And as far as work goes . . . It is illegal to hire illegal immigrants as far as I know. But you *know* that they are getting hired in large numbers for low-skilled jobs. tl;dr: America goes out of its way to make sure that illegal immigrants can't be discriminated against. it's not legally required to prove you're a legal immigrate to go to school. you can rent without needing to break out your birth certificate or passport. landlord wouldn't even know how to authenticate a passport anyway. fake ID's are easy to get...just ask any high schooler. you can find a job for a boss that looks the other way. because he's going to pay you less than minimum wage. Okay, I'm going to out myself as breaking US federal law, but as I already paid a fine and discussed it with immigration before, I don't feel too bad. Granted, my case isn't like what you imagine when you say "illegal immigrant". I've since returned to the US several times, legally and for extended periods since so I figure they've had a few chances to slap the cuffs on. Systems may have changed since I was there to make how I did it harder. I have worked illegally in the US twice. I've done it in Florida and California, both states that are pretty tight on illegal immigrant checks. About 10 months each time. A buddy and I decided to go to the US to "tour" like many of our friends did, except not to the UK or Europe like them. The "tour" is basically a rite of passage for a lot of Aussies, Kiwis and South Africans. We did some visiting with friends in several states, and ended up buying a truck in Utah, from a govt auction site. When applying for insurance, all of them required a SSN. They simply had no system that would accommodate the idea of two foreigners just wanting to insure a vehicle for a few months with an SSN or a US driving license. So we went off to the local govt office, and asked. It was that simple. We both got an SSN for about a $10 processing fee and it had a bold stamp on it saying "Not valid for employment". Fair enough. With that, we got a $5 Utah id card (So as not to have to carry passports any more at places that carded customers), and then also applied for a driver license. Both of these were official government issued, and bore the SSN and *no* employment status indicator. We toured for a bit more and were in California when money became short. We had open return tickets, valid for the 3 months of the visa waiver terms, but decided to stay. (Young, dumb and full of cum. Right?) So we got jobs. I had a semi skilled job helping some guy install electronic systems, and my buddy found another role. Both places asked for ID and SSNs, and the driver license satisfied both. We got an apartment in Santa Ana, paid rent on time, and paid taxes (automatically deducted). The second trip I had, I met up with him in Florida. There I got a job with him doing manual labour doing office installations. Again, they only needed basic proof of SSN for tax purposes. No-one gave a shit. In economies where a lot of the jobs are by word of mouth, or people get their relatives hired, *no-one* confronted us with a "You took er jerbs". In fact to most they were amused that two white boys were working illegally in California and Florida. We kept our noses clean, kept our vehicle roadworthy and legal, and paid taxes. We had insurance but never needed to use it, and the emergency funds to leave if we ever had to in a hurry. The immigration system may have changed since then, but I bet there's still loopholes. I'm sure it's harder since 9/11, but that's only for entry. If you're not on any lists or from any flagged nations, I bet you could get in and disappear. Many people from tin-pot nations meet the financial requirements of being able to support themselves for those months by bring cash from people in their home country and simply bank it in the US so that those people can get their own assets out of the country easily and have a bit of a nest-egg should they need to flee. I've since been back a few times, two of them while employed by a UK company, and once prior to that to attend an American university as a foreign student with full compliance in immigration. In all that time, I got stopped once when visiting with family and paid a $95 fine for overstaying my visa on my second trip. I fessed up to it at customs when the guy entered my data and asked me if there was something he should know. Didn't bullshit them. They would have turned me away that day if I tried to lie about it.
The laptop is used to select the songs that are being played. The basic knobs/sliders are volume, the crossfader and the bass/mid/treble knobs. There are usually two tracks playing at once, each with an individual set of volume and tone knobs. The crossfader slides between the two tracks, so when it is completely to the left, you can only hear the left track and when it is in the middle, both tracks are the same volume.
Because of the air in between you and the light source. The air is at slightly different temperatures so it's like a heat shimmer effect you get above a fire, also the air is full of dust and other stuff we don't normally notice, but at distances it blocks a bit of the light.
In three dimensional space, we can find three directions that are orthogonal to the other two direction. In four dimensional space, we can find four such directions. There really is no way for our three dimensional brains to visualize a four dimensional space, but is is absolutely trivial to describe it mathematically. Thus, math is the only way to understand abstract concepts like four dimensional space. P.S.: there are a lot of people claiming time is that fourth dimension. This is completely wrong, as time has an affine and directional structure while space does not. There is an important distinction betweem the four dimensional spacetime and a four dimensional space.
It's the vibrations of the flyback transformer that is responsible for the horizontal deflection of the electron beam that creates the picture. You can figure out the approximate frequency by thinking like this: There are 525 lines drawn on a television and the display refreshes at a frequency of (roughly) 60Hz (it's actually a very strange 59.94Hz) BUT REMEMBER THAT IT'S INTERLACED. This means that the signal that causes the horizontal deflection has to sweep across the 525 lines of the screen 30 times per second (half the image is drawn in an interlaced pattern at a time). 525*30 = 15.75kHz This is why only some people can hear it. That's out of the hearing range for a large number of older adults. Why do transformers vibrate? I won't go into that, but you'll be familiar with the problem if you've ever been near a device with "60Hz hum" that didn't come from a speaker. It's the power transformer vibrating at 60Hz.
After steam engines were developed, they began replacing the draft animals they were frequently using for power. When James Watt made some improvements to a steam engine and started selling them he wanted a number that would indicate to buyers how large a team the engine could replace (ie if a mine used 2 horses to lift ore a two horsepower motor could do the same work or a 4 horsepower motor would do roughly twice as much work, etc) or a brewer using a horse to turn a mill stone might need a one horsepower motor to replace the horse). So he did some measurement of how much work a draft horse could do over a period of hours, and found it was averaged about one horsepower. Then he could build engines that provided similar or more output than the draft teams, could work without changing teams, and burned less costly fuel than the multiple teams of horses required to get full day of work. James watt measured how much power you get from a horse turning a mill wheel and used that as one horsepower. URL_0
No, only migratory birds fly south, and not all birds are migratory. Some stay over the winter.
On the one hand, modern liberal democracy is regarded as "the end of history", with no other system to follow it. But it's as arrogant as it sounds. The ancient Greeks observed *anacyclosis*, a constant cycle of tyranny-oligarchy-democracy. Tyrants eventually die or get overthrown by their inner circle of advisors, who form a ruling clique; a competing group wants to take them down, and, to get enough political firepower, they vest the populace with more power. However, the resulting democracy inevitably comes to a political deadlock, where the only option is to put a strongman in charge. Rinse and repeat. The United States of America, for example, have come through three full and largely non-violent cycles: the tyrants were Washington, Lincoln and FDR. And, if this year is anything to go by, we're about to get a fourth one - and this even has nothing to do with Trump.
Supershooter here, I was the first United States National Pinball Chsmpion. The loud noise is a mechanism located at the top inside of the back glass part of the machine. This makes a loud noise to let everyone know a game has been won. In old game rooms, it was loud to let others know you won a game. I have a few machines and have put a cloth in to pad the noise in my home.
Check/scan disk is not fixing hardware. It's fixing bad data on the hard drive. The OS was in the middle of writing data when it lost power, and that put the data on the disk in a bad state that makes the OS unable to boot normally. Check/Scan disk is one of the tools that your OS has to fix the problem. It's still part of the OS, but it has to be run before the main, graphical part of the OS can be loaded, since the rest of the OS relies on the data on the hard drive being good. So the OS boots up, allows you to run check/scan disk, and then continues to boot afterward. Your hard drive uses an organization system. Think of it like the index of a book, it's page numbers and table of contents too. There's way too much data to ever keep track of otherwise. As it's working, it's constantly updating and editing this index to reflect the drive's contents. Pulling the plug before it can finish it's work leaves it potentially inaccurate, which will screw up something down the line when it tries to locate a resource and can't. So when starting up from a hard shutdown, it needs to take the time to figure stuff out and have everything organized and documented again. Fixing those issues on-the-fly is possible in theory, but it means that a lot of applications would probably quit or time-out and throw an error message because the OS is cleaning up the mess before getting the application the data it needs. So it's better to just do it up front.
Government debt is complicated, but I'll try my best to ELY5. When the US government spends more than it takes in, it issues treasury bonds to help cover the cost. Anybody can buy these bonds. Citizens, banks, foreign governments, even the US government (more on this later)! The bond basically says "I promise to pay 30 dollars to whomever holds ownership of this bond, on January 1st 2047." Now an investor might buy that bond today for $25. After 30 years, she can redeem it for the full (par) value. But maybe she doesn't want to hold onto it for the full time. She can sell that bond to another investor in the secondary market. As the bond gets closer to its maturity date, it becomes more valuable. So after holding the bond for a few years, she sells it for $26. Profit! So who owns these bonds? Anybody. Everybody. Doesn't matter. They are flying around in the secondary market, being bought and sold like crazy. Investors prefer US treasury bonds because they are a super-safe investment to stash money in while they search for other investments. "But," I can hear you say "isn't it bad to get yourself further and further in debt? Won't your debt payments eventually overwhelm your finances?" Well, sort of. When the government runs a deficit, it justifies it with economic growth. As the economy grows, more taxes are collected. More taxes means more revenue for the government and thus it can support a larger debt burden. On a personal note, I think that congress has been irresponsible about running too large a deficit, but there isn't much political will to balance the budget. So how do we tell if we have too much debt? The most common answer is to examine the debt-to-gdp ratio. As long as our economy grows faster than our debt, we're winning. This might be the end of our story except there's a complication: The Fed. The Federal Reserve is the central bank of the US. They control (among other things) how much money goes into the US economy. As the economy grows, you need more money to facilitate the increased trade. So the Fed "creates" new money to flow into the economy. The way the Fed accomplishes this is by buying Treasury bonds on the secondary market (they are prohibited by law from buying directly from the treasury). The Fed creates "new" money and then uses it to buy treasury bonds. So let's suppose the Fed bought our investor's bonds for $26. What do they do with this thing when it matures? It's not like the Fed needs the money (they can magically create as much as they need). So instead, the Fed simply hands the payment right back to the treasury. This is why they say the government owes money to itself. So instead of looking exclusively at total government debt, it's better to look at "debt held by the public" to get a better sense of the size of the problem. I hope this helps. Let me know if you have any questions.
Before calculus, you computed the perimeter of a polygon inside a circle, then the perimeter of one outside a circle, [like this]( URL_0 ), and took their average. The more sides the polygon has, the better the approximation. After calculus, they discovered infinite series that added up to pi, like: 4 - 4/3 + 4/5 - 4/7 + 4/9... Computing more accurate versions of pi was just a matter of how many terms you wanted to use. There are a couple of different ways. Think about a circle with a radius 1. You know mathematically that Circumference= 2Pi*r. What if you had a square that touched the circle on each side? We can easily calculate the perimeter of this square, because we know the length of each side (it's twice the radius of the circle). So we can make a very rough aproximation for Pi. What if we do the same thing with a hexagon? We can find the perimeter of the hexagon that touches the circle on each side by drawing a triangle from the center of each side to the corner to the center of the circle, and then multiplying that by twice the number of triangles. That hexagon is a closer approximation to a circle, so we can get a better value of Pi. You can keep doing this same thing by envisioning a figure with more and more sides, and that gets closer and closer to a circle. So if you start with a polygon that has a huge number of sides, eventually you get to something that is very close to what we know Pi must be. This isn't the only way to get an approximation for Pi, but it's probably the easiest to think about without getting into complicated math.
Oxygen is present in water, but our lungs do not have the capability to separate the water molecules into oxygen and hydrogen. Jello is mostly water but you can't exactly drink it after it has set.
Briefly: no. Long-ly: It depends on the person with depression. We know very little about the causes of depression. We've got tons of theories, and many treatments that help some cases, and even some treatments that cause complete remission in rarer cases. But no one treatment has proven 100% effective. SSRIs make some depressed people totally functional, and cause suicidality in others. Non-pharmacological treatments such as ECT, DBS, and TMS have proven pretty effective -- for some people. It's just too varied to really say. Our entire understanding of depression is basically "Sometimes it's caused by these things. Sometimes even if it's caused by those things, the treatment just doesn't work. We don't really know why most of the time. Just gotta try another thing." Source: mental healthcare worker, person with MDD
The larger size audio jacks are preferred in pro-level gear because it can be built much sturdier, and with high end beefy metal parts withstand thousands and thousands of plug/unplug cycles. Functionally, there isn't a big difference. But since for musicians this stuff can spend a ton of time getting thrown around on stages and run over with carts and stomped on and rattling in cases, they'd like it tough.
Probably the same reason Vader didn't just force choke Obi-Wan or Luke. A person strong with the force would create a small aura around them, somewhat repelling others using a simple direct force ability on them. Like a bubble pushing against another bubble. For the same reason why you can Accio someone's wand, or can't crush a Jedi's throat with the Force. As a general rule of fiction, stronger wizards are at least partially immune to the more common forms of magical attacks. Wouldn't your opponent just be able to turn it back on using the force as well?
The ice sheet is already floating on the ocean so it breaking off and drifting out to sea will have little effect on global sea levels. The real worry is that the ice sheet is holding back the advance of glaciers that are *resting on land* and if their advance speeds up they will be transferring ice from the land to the sea. That has the potential for catastrophic rapid rises in global sea level.
Other than with Full HD (1080p/i) or regular HD (720p/i) which describe the amount of vertical pixels, 4K describes the approximate amount of horizontal pixels in the image. There is also another 4K standard that is mostly used in movies and film production called DCI 4K that actually has more than 4k horizontal pixels (4096x2160). In the case of the regular consumer 4K (which is also called UHD-1 or 2160p), it was a marketing choice to call it 4K even though it has less than 4k horizontal pixels. Small fun fact: 4K has exactly 4 times the pixels of FHD. There is also a standard called Quad HD (QHD) that has exactly 4 times the pixels of regular HD (2560x1440). "HD" can refer to 1280x720 or 1920x1080. 4K is 4x 1080p -- 3840 is twice 1920, and 2160 is twice 1080, twice as wide and twice as tall means four times larger overall. It's actually 9x 720p. (3840*2160)/(1280*720) = 9, or 8.2944 megapixels vs 0.9216 megapixels. Anyway, the terms '2K', '4K' and '8K' come from cinema production. 4K is anything with about 4K vertical lines to the image, and we use this measurement because the exact number can vary according to the 'aspect ratio' or shape of the image (you know how some movies are closer to regular widescreen, while others are in super-widescreen?). 4K can be 3996x2160, 3840x2160, 4096x1714, 3656x2664, 4096x3112, and other similar shapes. The number of horizontal lines varies wildly (1714 vs 3112) so we measure by vertical lines, which are always roughly 4K. 2K can be 1998x1080, 2048x858, 1828x1332, 2048x1556, or 2048x1552. Regular HD is 1920x1080. 1080 x 4 is irrelevant, the 4K refers to the fact that 3840 is close to 4000 and is easier to say.
It is less wrong, and more of an incomplete approximation. For example, you have a farm in Kansas that is 5 miles by 5 miles. You have exactly 25 square miles, right? Area = side * side, after all. That would be wrong. You have slightly more than 25 square miles, because the earth is roughly a sphere. That doesn't mean the formula for area is wrong, it just doesn't take into account spherical surfaces. It is also very accurate over small distances. Newtonian physics is the same way. It isn't wrong, it just doesn't take relativity into account. And for speeds that aren't a significant fraction of the speed of light, it is quite accurate. It's not "wrong" but it only works for a limited set of conditions, the conditions we're likely to experience on earth. Einstein's relativity theory works for a far larger set of conditions, like the bending of space because of large objects, like planets (also known as "gravity"), a concept that was alien to Newton. Newton thought of gravity as an attractive force, but had no clue to its true nature. If you feed the conditions of space with no perceptible curvature into Relativity theory, what you get back out is essentially Newtonian Physics. It's interesting to note that Relativity Theory doesn't work for *all* conditions. For instance, it is incompatible with Quantum Physics. We can gather from this that there must be a larger theory of physics from which both Relativity and Quantum Physics can be derived. Newtonian physics is a model to explain and predict the behavior of the natural world. Like any good model, it does some things very good, but it's not perfect. Models tend to break down at the extremes. If I were to drop a baseball from a height of 5 feet and want to know how long it's going to take for the baseball to hit the ground, I could find an answer by solving for t in d=gt^2. But if I had extremely sensitive equipment, I'd probably find that my actual result didn't match up with the real prediction. Maybe I was off by .0000001 seconds. Why would that be? Well, maybe my measurements weren't quite right, and I didn't start at exactly 5 feet, or the value for acceleration due to gravity was only correct to 4 significant figures. But did that small discrepancy matter for what I was trying to do? What if instead of 5 feet, I was dropping a baseball from the stratosphere. Would the same equation give an accurate result? No, because that equation doesn't include the drag that air resistance is going to cause and become a large factor when the ball starts moving at a high enough speed. Or what if I'm dropping the ball into a black hole instead? Newtonian physics aren't a good model there because relativistic effects become important in that extreme scenario. We say that Newtonian physics is a good model because a lot of the time, the model we're using lines up with the real world, because the model accounts for those factors. Some factors (like relativistic effects when things are really heavy or moving really fast) or quantum effects (the behavior of objects that are really small), are not taken into account in Newtonian physics, but for lots of applications, those things don't matter, because their effect on the outcome is negligible. It's pretty common for there to be rules of thumb that are simpler than the real system, but hide the complexity of the real system and fail on edge cases. As an example - you could make a rule of thumb that you can never turn right on red. It'll work - you'll never get a ticket for illegally turning right on red, so in that sense it "works", but it's hiding the complexity of the real system. Newtonian physics is a model that, in most cases, is accurate, but doesn't capture the underlying causes and thus missed some important complexity. It's not wrong, it's just inaccurate. It works well enough as long as your measurements aren't too precise, you aren't going too fast, and probably a few more things that I can't recall off the top of my head. Once you go beyond those constraints, you run into things that Newton wasn't able to test, so you need to modify the equations to account for variables he and his contemporaries weren't able to observe.
Poisons work in a lot of different ways. Cyanide. It doesn't get turned into a 'not poisonous' cyanide by the liver. There is no such thing. Cyanide works by blocking the cells ability to uptake oxygen. Very small amount, there's no issue, as the amount of cyanide can't effect enough cells to have a negative effect. Generally up to 0.5mg/L. Cyanide is present in certain fruits, nuts etc. After 0.5mg/L, there starts to be enough to mess with your body. It creates heart issues, brain problems, low blood pressure. Over 3mg/L will kill you, as your body cannot recover or deal with the lack of oxygen in the cells and you'll die of a heart attack shortly after.
*"Necessity is the mother of invention..."* Most criminals start small, very few go in for the big jobs straight off, and even then they usually only have small roles to play if they do. Simple skills like picking locks and pockets just take a little practice, and most people can be reasonably successful in a short period of time. Plus if that's the kind of life you live or the kind of people you associate with regularly, then like any muscle, you'll get better and can move onto bigger things. More skills are gained, old ones are improved, and you go from simple things like stealing cars or breaking into houses, to larger, more complex jobs like heists Jail is a bit of an incubator for criminal skills - in jail, you can network, be recruited, and teach and learn. I know a guy who was offered jobs as a getaway driver by biker gangs while in jail for street racing/ speeding.
Well if you go back far enough currency was a specific metal, like gold, silver or copper. These metals had a value in the metal itself that did not matter what country issued them, so there was not any issue of counterfeiting as we know it. However people still found ways to scam you out of money. If you look on the edge of a coin, you will typically see that the edge is not smooth. Thats called "reeding" and is used because people used to shave a small amount of gold or silver off the edge of a coin and melt it down to pocket the difference. The reeding on the edge tells people that this coin has not been shaved down. Counterfeit currency has always been a problem. For a while, just stamping a coin was good enough as few people had the tech to stamp their own. Of course crooks got smart and figured out how to make fakes or modify existing coins. Gold coins were especially vulnerable and traders would have balance scales to check the coins hadn't been drilled out. Acid tests were developed and complex patterning on the coin made it more difficult to fake.
Couple of things here. First is us. We got there first and we have created enormous pressure on other species. Second is time. They could be doing exactly this but be a million years behind us - the blink of an eye for evolution. 1) All the primates are known to use tools. At least to some degree. 2) Why do you think evolution is on some kind of linear path? Because that's not how evolution works. Evolution does not have a "goal". There is no natural pressure toward a state of sentience, self-realization, or human-level tool/technology development. Evolutionary pressures adapt organisms (as a general rule) just enough to be able to survive effectively within their environment. Basically, either evolve fast enough to not die, or go extinct. Occasional mutations may result in a distinct advantage over other competitors for resources, allowing a species to take over their given ecosystem. However, there is no linear goal of nature to move organisms progressively from nematode to fish to lizard to mammal to primate to human. Every kingdom/phylum/species evolves on its own track according to its environmental pressures.
The House of Representatives begins impeachment proceedings. If a majority votes for impeachment, the President is now impeached, and the U.S. Senate is now responsible for holding a trial. The House of Representatives acts as the prosecution, and the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court acts as the presiding Judge. Two thirds(currently 67) of the Senate have to vote for conviction in order for the President to be removed. Any elected or appointed official in the executive or Judicial Branches of Government can be impeached by Congress. For any impeachment not involving the President or Vice President, the Vice President serves as the presiding judge. For those two positions the Chief Justice handles it.
First of all, these are not weights, they are masses. Weight refers to the force of attraction that objects with mass exert on each other. Mass measures "how much stuff" there is, how much force is needed to accelerate something (inertia) remember F=ma, and also has to do with energy. What I mean by the last one is that increasing the energy of something increases the mass. In fact the mass increase m is given by m = E/c^2 or as most people know it E=mc^2. If it's a subatomic particle the total energy is E and the total mass is m. If a particle is moving the equation is E^2 = m^2 c ^4 + p^2 c ^2 where p is momentum. Anyway, the amount of "stuff" there is, the inertia, and the m in that big equation are the same thing and they all mean mass. We can measure an objects mass by F=ma or by measuring the energy and momentum. The energy and momentum way is more common. One more way (the most common) is a mass spectrometer. By accelerating a particle in a known and measured field, we can measure its kinetic energy in proportion to its charge. You can also use this to move a particle in a circular path, measuring the momentum. Both of these can be used to solve for mass. tl;dr using E^2 = m^2 c ^4 + p^2 c ^2 which is E=mc^2 for a moving particle (p is momentum) we can solve for m by knowing the other variables. You could also use F=ma or a tool called a mass spectrometer.
Background: Served on Transportation and Infrastructure Committee for a major Canadian city. Involved in design/implementation of roadworks, including intelligent stoplight systems. Some background on stoplights: There are multiple kinds of stoplights, the most basic just running on a simple timer-based system. Every so many seconds, the lights change, but there is no awareness of the traffic conditions. Some more advanced stoplights contain vehicle sensors embedded in the roadway at or before the stop line. These sensors feed information into the light control system, allowing it to make intelligent decisions. For instance, if you have a minor road intersecting a major road, there may be sensors placed on the minor road, so that the lights only cycle when there is a car waiting to cross. Sometimes they are used to signal a preemptive left turn light. The civil engineers will space out two sensors 4-5 car lengths apart, and if both sensors are covered it means there are at least that many cars queuing, and the advance left will allow those cars to proceed first. Most major intersections have at least a few roadway sensors. The most advanced systems allow the lights to communicate and can be timed to allow waves of traffic. In my city, there is an Intersection Control Centre, with live feeds from cameras at each intersection, and the ability to adjust intersection timings on the fly. Priority routes are identified, along with traffic flows during certain times of the day. The stoplights along these priority routes are then synchronized, taking into account the relative speed of the traffic and the speed limits. If you're going with the priority flow of traffic, you'll hit at most one red light, after which point you'll be synchronized with the traffic flow, and you should hit all greens, as long as you drive the speed limit. If you drive too fast, you'll hit each red just as it turns green. If you're hitting all the reds, you might be going in the wrong direction, or you're just really unlucky. I highly doubt that your city is specifically engineering the light cycles to slow you down. If anything, they'd be aiming to speed you up. EDIT: So this blew up overnight. I'll try to answer a bunch of questions that people have had. I'm not an industry professional, I've just been in the scene with them for awhile. I work in IT, not traffic engineering. 0. There's no big "Traffic Engineering" bible that every engineer uses. Different cities can do wildly different things, and all we can do is speculate. There's no way to answer "My road is optimized for exactly 42mph at 11am, why is that?" 1. People are really good at finding patterns where there aren't any. Conspiracy theorists abound! If the lights in your city are messing with you, they probably aren't. Having said that, weirder things have happened. *shrug* It's certainly possible for clever engineers to slow traffic down or to speed traffic up. I'd bet dollars to donuts that they do this in Vegas, as many people have mentioned. A few people have also mentioned that the lights are used to prevent speeders, another plausible possibility. It really depends on your city and the engineers. 2. "aiming to speed you up" is meant within reason. I'm talking about a jam packed 6 lane road where coordinated light cycles can mean the difference between 40km/h and 50km/h. At night, the lights probably ARE optimized to dissuade people from speeding/racing. 3. Buses and emergency services usually have preemtion devices to allow them to hold a green or switch to a green (usually respectively. I know that buses where I live aren't able to force a red to a green, but fire trucks can) 4. The roadway sensors use magnetic induction to detect when a large chunk of metal is above them, e.g. your car. It's not by weight or pressure, you don't need to hit them exactly or run them over, you just need to get your car near them. The preemption devices mentioned above use special strobe lights (or wireless in higher-tech systems), so flashing your high beams probably isn't gonna do dick, unless you can flash your high beams 20 times per second. There are a lot of different ways that traffic lights are controlled. In some cases the goal is to create "waves" of traffic that go through multiple green lights. And of course there are detectors that wait for vehicles before they activate - although they always have maximum green and red times. In this case it may be poor design or it may be part of a bigger traffic plan. It could be they've identified that by slowing traffic down at this point they're able to stop it building up somewhere else. They may have done it for a safety reasons if they identified excess speed as a particular problem. Usually it's because there's a preferred road to travel on and you're not on it. It can be a few main roads that gets all the greens to keep traffic moving and you're crossing them so you get the reds, or increasingly where I live, a toll road that the operators have a contract with the government to direct traffic onto either because its the new main road, or just so the toll road is always faster than the "free" roads. Other reasons are because of poor planing or the lights run off sensors and aren't coordinated (which amounts to the same thing) Wow, an ELI5 I feel qualified to answer! I'm a graduate student in transportation! Signal timing is actually a very complicated process, **but it really comes down to the fact that you can't please everyone all the time** (this is the tl;dr of every life problem probably). Let's illustrate it with a simple example. You want to time three signals, they are split with 30 seconds green and 30 seconds red. If you drive at the speed limit, it takes you 10 seconds to go from the first to the second signal, another 10 seconds to go to the third signal. So how would you time them? Well, it seems easy, set the second signal to start green 10 seconds after the first signal, and the third signal to start green 20 seconds after the second signal. The problem is this only works in one direction! Imagine, now, you want to go in the opposite direction using these timings. If you pass signal 3 when it first shows green, signal 2 will already have been showing green for 10 seconds (20 seconds of green left), and signal 1 will already have been showing green for 20 seconds (only 10 seconds left). Since it takes you 20 seconds to reach signal 1 from signal 3, it's easy to see that someone going in the opposite direction is going to have to stop. Add in cross streets and you've got yourself even more priorities to juggle! [Here's an image I found on Google to illustrate this]( URL_0 ). In this figure, the green arrows represent the "greenband" (the "window" where arriving vehicles will get green along the whole corridor) for the major direction, and the signal timing is plotted out as horizontal bars. You can see that the opposite direction's "greenband" shown in blue arrows is not as wide, and many vehicles will stop at one of the three lights. The reality is, transportation systems are designed to minimize the total system delay, which means spreading the delay around such that the total (volume*delay time) is minimized. This means that not-so-busy directions will see red more often, and you may see red at cross streets. Roads where both directions are busy are also really hard to time. Vehicle tracking technologies and things like this are used to adapt the signal timing so that less people have to stop. Usually most cities will time their signals a few times a year based on volume demands, and they may have special timing plans for bad weather (which changes how fast people drive) and special events that add extra demand on certain streets. This was intentionally done by the UK government to waste fuel and increase tax revenue. I'm sure it was pitched as a "safety feature" long ago in your case. URL_0 > In the UK, in 2009, it was revealed that the Department for Transport had previously discouraged green waves as they reduced fuel usage, and thus less revenue was raised from fuel taxes Could be poor planning by the city or you could simply be travelling on a less important road than the cross streets whose lights you are getting stopped at. An example. I work for an engineering firm that includes highway/street planning and construction division. The highway dept starts 2 desks away from mine. Our office is located next to a very busy city street/limited access highway intersection. The traffic coming out of my office park and onto the city street is usually crappy and the lights cycle in VERY short cycles. Cars pile up into the office park and citizens are constantly complaining to the city. My company did the design on the intersection when it was upgraded about 3 years ago. The city has asked us to do a traffic study to determine if the street traffic can be reduced or wait times in the intersections reduced. I was discussing all this with a coworker at lunch just the other day. I asked why the lights were on such short cycle and what could they do about it. The problem as he explained to me was not the city streets but the highway. Because the highway has much higher speeds the potential for deadly crashes is much higher if the exit ramp backs up onto the highway so the timing of the lights is designed to not let the exit ramp fill up. All the other surrounding streets are less important than making sure there are no stopped cars sitting on the highway to get rear ended. TL:DR maybe your road isn't as important as the other roads Boston does this to slow traffic down and make the city more "pedestrian friendly." It doesn't work, it just makes drivers more aggressive and mad. That's what happens when your town is run by Puritans. It's called "Traffic calming" and it's done intentionally just like speed bumps. What it really says is "fuck you for trying to get where you are going in a car. We will make it just as slow as taking a bus if we can." Something in a similar vein- Near me there is a long commercial strip with probably 10+ sets of lights stretching over a couple kms. The speed limit is 60km/h BUT, if you go at or near 60, you get through only one(or maybe 2 if you punch it)lights before getting stopped. HOWEVER if you are at the start of the strip(and grandma gets out of the way) and take it up to ~72km/h, you can cruise the whole strip not stopping once. It has been like this for at least 10 years. Theyre supposed to be timed slightly one after the other so that if youre going the speed limit you will eventually hit continual green. But after repairs etc the timing gets off. Traffic engineers: Not good enough at math to be real engineers. Not good enough at programming to be programmers. City councils instaling traffic lights opt to stagger traffic near commercial areas to make you stop and consider shopping at the small businesses you have time to notice. It's like forcing you to look at advertisements on the internet. And it works. Source: designed stoplights. In The Netherlands in some busy roads with have system which let's you know what your driving speed should be in order to make the next green light. It will tell you to drive slower to avoid standing still. If you follow the instructions you will almost always be able to drive all the way through town without stopping once. This is a wikipedia article about it [ URL_0 ]( URL_0 ) When the frig fuck are they just going to require car manufacturers put a signal-emitting unit into cars that are then picked up by related sensors in lights so they know how many cars are at each intersection and contain logic that decide which lights are green and for how long? No cameras needed, no oversight by human beings in a control center. One and done. Freeze me like Walt Disney and wake me up when that happens. I work in traffic control and I can tell you were not intentionally trying to slow you down, we drive on the same roads and want to get home too so we do our best to time lights correctly, keep the fiber and loops up and just keep the maintenance on schedule the best we can. If you want, and you notice serious traffic issues call us. We don't see every light and sometimes the timers can lose its time base over months causeing weird traffic conditions. Just call traffic engineering and let them know what you think is wrong. On a side note sometimes cops and emergency services accidentally will leave there opticom on unknowingly and this causes some backups as well. I say unknowingly because at least for our city there is no notification if it's left on it's just a switch and after a big event they just get left on by accident. Happens quite often actually. We have the lights with sensors on the ground. If there is a gap 4-5 car lengths, then the light changes red. It is frustrating when the person infront of you is slow and doesn't keep up with traffic, so the light changes red. Or when they sit at a light behind the sensor on the road, so the light never changed because the idiot infront of you won't move up. Also timing between lights with these sensors suck on the main road and favor the side street turning into main road. For example, if you are main road sitting at red. The side traffic turns left onto the same direction you are going but ahead of you. So that side street traffic triggers the next light, there is a gap of that traffic with yours. So when your light turns green, that next light has turned back to red because of the gap. So main oncoming traffic always hits reds. Frustrating as fuck.
Kinda, we can work with Recombinant DNA to insert certain genes on certain cells so they produce a protein that they are not producing, but should. One example would be getting pancreatic cells to produce insunline on a diabetic patient. [I'll leave you this video]( URL_0 )
So I'm assuming what you're asking is: why is it that a gunshot to the brain is so catastrophically fatal, when it's been shown that you can damage that organ and come out of it alive? Pointing to the example of [Phineas Gage]( URL_0 ), who survived an entire pole being thrust through his brain by an explosive charge. Well it's worth noting that gunshot wounds are particularly nasty injuries. It isn't the case that the bullet bores a [neat hole through the skull and then exits on the other side]( URL_1 ). The skull fragments follow the bullet into the wound and scatter. And the bullet itself deforms (usually) and tumbles through the soft tissue inside, shredding everything. And any material the bullet came into contact with (dirt, clothing, bacteria, etc) comes in with it. Now for an organ that's so delicate that it necessitated having it's own sealed container to protect it, this is generally extremely bad. It's a bull in a china shop scenario. It's not that the brain is destroyed with a single hit. It's more that the single hit is catastrophically damaging. Bullets do not pass through soft matter and simply make a hole the size of the bullet. [Here] ( URL_0 ) is a video of bullets passing through various softish items (warning, it's anti-gun propaganda). A bullet forces the matter to spread out in a fairly large diameter, with the damage depending on the speed, caliber, etc.. of the bullet and the firearm used. I have had the misfortune of arriving on the scene of a man who killed himself by shooting himself in the head. He used a small caliber hand gun, which he somehow shot himself with in the front of the skull (usually people will shoot themselves from the side). The exit wound was approximately four or five inches in diameter. That is a large area of damage to a very sensitive organ. So the bullet passes through the brain, slicing it's path. But it also traumatically impacts the surrounding brain tissue as well. It is like how slamming a sledge hammer into your brain can kill you, even if it doesn't penetrate. > Gunshot wound head trauma is the cause of an estimated 35 percent of all deaths attributed to TBI **[Traumatic Brain Injury]**. There is a 90% mortality rate, and whether or not you survive depends on variables like "caliber of the gun, size and speed of the bullet, the trajectory and site the injury". Further reading: URL_0
Yes is theoretically possible. Build safe nuclear plants and renewable energy supplies. Convert everyone to electric powered cars. Stop building war machines. Disband all armies. Put them to work building infrastructure. It will not happen. Sure, many of those people *do* have first world lifestyles...for 1905. That's kind of the catch, once a country like Thailand or Brazil achieves the standard of living more developed countries enjoy, those countries will have continued developing, and redefine what "first world standard of living" means. Also, just a note, while "first world" is something people clearly understand, it is meaning is tied to the Cold War and has become somewhat obsolete. The preferred terminology is "developed" vs. "developing".
They can do it if they want. However the car companies makes money to train and certify car mechanics and to provide them with the correct codes. Codes can often change between similar cars and be totally different for the same model with different option packs or with different production dates. It also ensures that the owner takes the car to a licensed workshop which helps reduce problems that comes from untrained mechanics or unoriginal parts. If I was being cynical it doesn't give information because it wants you to take your car to the dealer for a expensive service. I genuinely don't understand how with modern cars with big LED displays and onboard computers, a car can't give an indication of the nature of the issue. The mechanic can get much more data, with a reader, from the car's ODB2 maintenance data port. The car manufacturer only lights the MIL to tell you to take you car to someone who has a reader. There are thousands of codes, and cluttering up the dashboard with space for all the message details would not meet the car company's styling requirements.
It depends on the 'poison' you're talking about. A lot of toxicity in humans is caused not by the chemical itself, but by what the liver breaks it down into. For example, ethanol(drinking alcohol) is converted to acetaldehyde in the liver while isopropanol(rubbing alcohol) is converted to acetone. One of these(ethanol) is 'relatively' safe for us to consume. The other is fatal in pretty small doses I can't seem to find a source for deer being able to consume rodotoxin because they don't have a gall bladder or anything relating toxicity to the gall bladder... But the toxicity is due to " an inability to inactivate neural sodium ion channels resulting in continuous increased vagal tone". This mechanism is the same in humans and animals, and since I don't see a relation to the gall bladder I'm going to say yes it would still be toxic. Sorry what? A gall bladder has nothing to do with it. The reason why certain animals don't have gall bladders is generally their dietary habits - hind gut fermenting animals that are grazers don't all have a gall bladder (horses for example). The gall bladder stores bile created by the liver and discharges into the small intestine. Animals without a gall bladder (and I assume people too) still create bile it just doesn't get stored - it trickles into the small intestine at a more constant rate. I'm a vet so not 100% on the human aspects. Hmm, in the Army I was taught "if a deer can eat it, so can you," as a survival trick. So this is false? Due to us being omnivores, we have a gallbladder to store bile. Bile helps to break down fat when we eat meat and other fatty foods. That is its one and only purpose. It doesn't have any relation to poisons or the ability or inability to process chemicals in the body. What does that gall bladder have to do with poison? Isn't that the liver? Gallbladder has nothing to do with breaking down toxins, it's sole purpose is to store and concentrate bile that was made in the liver (though some waste products are excreted in bile). Toxin management is the liver's job (and to some degree the kidneys). If it's true that deer can eat poisonous plants it's because they have a specific enzyme that is able to break the toxins down. Different animals have adapted to eat different things, e.g. termites can digest cellulose because their gut has cellulase which breaks it into more simple sugars, humans cannot (we just poop it out - which is why fiber is good for constipation - it stays in your gut and pulls water in to keep your stool hydrated/flowing). If you had you're gallbladder out, don't try eating poison...you're gonna have a bad time. Source: I'm a people doctor. I just had my gallbladder out; following this thread to discover if I have a new superpower. Pls say yes.
Because Russia. Like it or not, NATO is primarily the Club of Countries the US Promises To Protect. Its ludicrously massive military is what everyone wants on their side. After Russia's adventures in the Crimea and Eastern Ukraine, there are suspicions within NATO that either Poland or the Baltics might suddenly find an [oppressed Russian minority]( URL_0 ) within their borders, joined by "vacationing" Russian officers, and suddenly Russia's border will shift westwards. While Ukraine isn't NATO, those other states are, hence NATO (i.e. US) troops are pooling into there. Russia of course denies ties to the rebels in Eastern Ukraine and claims that it's Crimea's democratic choice, while blaming the West for the "Nazi junta" in Ukraine and the thoughtless Kosovo precedent allowing such democratic choices. Hence Poland has nothing to fear... for now.
Afaik the three strains chosen are the three most virulent strains recognized during the opposite hemisphere's winter i.e. six months ago. It's mainly a prediction of how they've seen the virus mutate. You get an injection that has the main few they believe will be the issue. It doesn't guarantee you won't get sick though. You could always get infected by a different strain. Am I wrong to think that the ramrodding of flu shots each year cause the virus to mutate more quickly? Thus compounding the problem?
This just my guess but most animals try to climb on to stuff so they can see more. That way they can see predators that might come and attack them, and find prey (if they need to) or other food sources much easier. Put simply, practice makes perfect. Goats are mountain animals. Mountain animals need to know how to climb or they fall and die. Goats and their kids are programmed to practice this at all stages of life because it results in higher survival. Similar to how horses and foals like to run around because they are animals that tend to run from danger and practicing helps!
We don't need to. If the brain interprets that limb as our own, it will go on to fabricate sensations based on other sensory input. [Watch this]( URL_0 ). > And on top of that, how can we connect the brain to the limb allowing for our brain to control said limb? Cybernetics. Stick wires into the brain. Learn the rest through practice.
surface area vs internal guts. You have an exponential growth problem. Cells need to take food in and get waste out through their cell wall. When a cell is really small, that works out fine. But if you make a cell larger, the amount of potential mass you can have *inside* the wall grows faster than the amount of wall you have. So it's harder for this enormous mass to move resources in and waste out fast enough to stay healthy. And the bigger it gets, the bigger the problem. edit: for a visual representation, [look at these legos]( URL_0 ). Let's pretend that red legos represent the cell wall structure (which plays a vital role in controlling and limiting what goes in/out of a cell), and the yellow ones are the cells other vital internal organs, which is where the magic happens but they need resources coming in to keep it up. When the cell's tiny, your ratio of wall to guts is pretty good. But as it starts to get bigger, your ratios get out of whack. A 12 by 12 cell would have 144 legos worth of internal organs to feed, and it just gets worse from there. They can. The genus "Caulerpa" are single celled algae, some of which can grow to be the size of a person.
The Office of Congressional Ethics is the independent body created in 2008 to investigate allegations of misconduct by lawmakers after several bribery and corruption scandals sent members to prison. Apparently the crooks have decided the best way to stay out of jail is to fire the police department (or at least take away their powers). URL_0 The OCE was supposed to be independent. While that may be true they overstepped their bounds and often leaked allegations (which were made anonymously) even before any conclusions were reached. This had some dire consequences for many innocent people. Spurious accusations could be made without any substantiation and these were sometimes leaked. Congress has decided to back to investigating allegations themselves, which is what they did prior to 2008. The difference now is that the Ethics Committee will receive allegations directly and not anonymously. It's important to note that the committee consists of members of both parties and many Democrats are in favor of dissolving the OCE because their members were harmed just as often.
They're filled with liquid, not gas. In the case of friction blisters, that liquid is usually plasma. Your skin is composed of layers of cells, and when you apply repetitive friction (shear stress) to a particular area, the upper layers are torn away from the lower layers and plasma leaks out from the damaged cells and collects between the layers of skin.
I don't have any reference materials, so I can't to much detail, but nobody else answered yet, so I'll do a summary. Saliva is a combo of mostly water and proteins with a little bit of dissolved salts. It comes from salivary glands that are placed in several places around your mouth. Mostly under the tongue. A gland is basically a pocket. The cells that make up the pocket are specialized to make the proteins and release them through their cell walls into the pocket. They also have gates that let them bleed a little bit of water that comes from the cells who absorbed it from your blood. The salts mostly just followed the water. Hopefully a more detailed answer will come along for you later if you're still interested.
Take a puzzle with 1000 pieces, throw them on the ground. You'll probably generate a huge mess. Repeat this often. Sometimes two pieces that fit together will land next to each other. Repeat this really, really often. Once in a while, all 1000 pieces will land at their right spot. Our brain is a bit like a puzzle - just with even more pieces (atoms). Space is never completely empty, there are a few atoms and radiation flying around, so space is constantly "throwing pieces around". Wait long enough and have enough space, and eventually a human brain will appear just by random chance. It won't last long, but it can last long enough to have thoughts. Every other possible arrangement of atoms will happen as well. There is also a "Boltzmann flower pot" and so on.
Because an air bubble can function and cause the same problems as a clot formed of other materials. Collectively, it is known as an embolism and can be made of things like clotted blood, fatty tissue, or even an air bubble. The principle is simple, the air bubble travels down the blood vessels, which get progressively narrower as they travel further away from the body, and then the vessel gets too narrow and the bubble gets wedged in the pipe, so to speak. It blocks the entire flow, preventing the blood from continuing down the path. Now if this blocks a vessel that's extremely vital, such as the ones that provide blood supply to the heart tissue or say the blood vessel that feeds into the lungs to pick up oxygen, then you're going to have a very bad time. It should be noted that air bubbles in the bloodstream are not as dangerous as people make it out. It is still a risk, hence why medical professionals will take care not to accidentally inject air, but it's not a case of 'the tiniest air bubble will kill you' sort of thing. Gases do dissolve into the blood stream, it's a slow process but it does happen. And your venous blood system is full of valves that assist with blood flow, but will also break up bubbles. In addition, the bubble has to go somewhere important and that's all entirely up to chance - it could spend it's entire time just circulating through large blood vessels and then gets stuck somewhere in your leg where collateral blood flow (other blood vessels) prevents any serious harm from happening. Edit: I should clarify that the most crucial component is which part of the blood system the air enters. The venous system is far more tolerant than the arterial blood supply, as explained above with things such as valves and the general fact that veins get larger in diameter as you flow downstream, whereas arteries getting narrower. In a hospital setting, most injections and bloodwork is done via the venous system, and you won't see people trying to access arterial bloodflow outside of specialized procedures because of these inherent risks. Air can also enter the bloodstream through trauma.
Imagine you are out walking in the woods near your house and you find a cave. You think to yourself, "Gee that's a real nice cave, there's just enough room for my rocket car, my crime fighting computer and my superhero costume collection. It'd be perfect for me." Let's say that nobody already owns the cave, so you move in and bring in all your stuff. You carve a costume wardrobe into one of the stone walls, grab a shovel and flatten the floor a bit so your rocket car can drive in and out. After you've finished working on the cave and fixing it up you start to think of it as yours. But not everybody agrees. There's another guy a few miles away who also fancies himself a billionaire superhero like you. Flies around in a stupid metal suit that he made himself while a prisoner of the Taliban or something like that. Anyway, one day he walks by and sees your cave and thinks, "That's a great cave, I should make that my lair." So he comes in for a chat. He starts by telling you that he's going to move into your cave because it's his. You tell him to get stuffed, and that if he tries to take it from you, you'll be forced to unwrap a bundle of BAM!, POW! and WHOOF! on him. And what's more, you've recently adopted a teenage boy who'll do the same. "Yeah?" says the guy, "Well if that's how you feel, I'm friends with a cryogenically frozen soldier, a Norse god and some dude who owns a bow and arrow. They'll back me up if I ask them. Your move." "So what?" you say. "One of my friends is a super strong refugee from a dying planet, another is a mythical Amazonian warrior and there's also a guy who was electrocuted by lightning while drowning in toxic chemicals. They'll take your friends for sure." "Yeah? We'll see. How fast can your friends be here?" "Funny you should ask. There's something I didn't tell you about my friend who got struck by lightning." Suddenly a phone rings. It's the other guy's cell. On the phone is a cool, english sounding voice with immense gravitas. "Forget the cave." it says. "I've spent my life training superhero teams at my private academy, and I'm telling you, your team is outgunned. In any case, nobody else wants a fight over this cave when we should all be working together for the good of mankind. Everyone else has decided the cave is his cause he claimed it first. So walk away." This call makes all the difference. The other guy might not be happy, but he leaves you in peace. The cave is yours because a) you claimed it b) you were in a position to defend it and c) everyone else agreed that your claim and ability to defend were substantial enough to recognise your right of ownership. By force. Historically, nations have defended their territory via their military or the military of their allies. If you want to keep an undiscovered island for yourself, be prepared to fight for it. With a flag and an force/money to back the claim. Now you've got a claim and prevented people from conquering it. The next step is making everybody else acknowledge the claim you have is legitimate. Historically that was usually done by force and/or transporting people there. If you're interested there is discovered and unclaimed land in several places in the world (terra nullius). Antartica has the most unclaimed land. A few other places have border disputes that result in neither side accepting a small chunk of land.
The less water you use the sooner it will boil and the less energy you use maintaining the boil. However too little water and you end up steaming the pasta or even burn the pasta and that is not what you want. So the right amount of water is just so that the pasta starts to appear over the water just as it is done, which is pretty close to the recommended amount. The directions need to give a safe minimum to the casual or untrained cook. However, you can find some new techniques that use less water. Alton Brown advocates cooking pasta in a minimum amount of water and adding the pasta while the water is cold. There are there are other techniques for making fresh pasta in a frying/saute pan with very little liquid. It's to make the instructions idiot-proof. It's easier to just give a specific amount of water than to try to explain how much to fill up the pot. Because some people do somehow manage to screw up boiling pasta.
Well, gene editing in a grown person is still not really a well-developed technology. Things like CRISPR are usually done on cell cultures in petri dishes. A common procedure, lipfection, mostly looks like mixing clear liquids together with using a [pipette]( URL_1 ) and [microcentrifuge tubes]( URL_0 ) and adding it to whereever your cells are, which is invariably some clear plastic thing with one or more wells. If those cells are fertilized eggs, then they can grow into people with edited genes. For a full-grown person, you would package the necessary molecules into a non-replicating virus and infect the person with it. I'm not sure what preparing the viruses would look like (probably mostly clear liquids and pipettes), but you would end up giving someone a shot or whatever to get the virus to the tissue you want to edit.
The little piece of cardboard is lined with a metallic material called a "susceptor". Normally, microwave ovens shoot the food with microwave radiation, exciting the molecules in the food and making it hot. What a susceptor does is absorb some of the microwave radiation and convert it to direct heat. This makes the small pocket of air between the susceptor and the food very hot, and browns the food in much the same fashion as putting it under a broiler.
It's hard to not speculate on this one since we don't know *exactly* what happened with our ancestors but the explanation my teacher suggested was that humans, the something soon before us, kinda stumbled into it. Natural fires caused by lightning or something would've cooked carcasses which were then eaten. That was found to cause fewer illnesses and be more readily digestible than the raw alternative, so became the way things were done.
What is the Big Bang? --- The origin of your confusion seems to be the very common misconception that the big bang originated from one point in space. That is not true. But let's back up a little:The observable universe is the sum of all points in space that are causally connected to earth. That means, it is a sphere around earth encompassing all the space from which photons have had the time to reach earth since the big bang ~13 billion years ago. This observable universe was indeed compressed into a tiny portion of space shortly after the big bang. However, the observable universe is by far not all there is. Current data shows, that the universe is [probably at least 3\*10^(23) times bigger]( URL_1 ) than the observable universe. And many cosmologists believe that the universe is infinitely big. Hence, the big bang did not occur at one point in space, but everywhere at one. Which is why the name big bang is horrible. Henry Reich from MinutePhysics argues that the Big Bang should be renamed into Everywhere Stretch in [this]( URL_0 ) video. (You should definitely check this video out, it does a good job explaining your very question.) The Cosmic Background Radiation is the residual radiation from a time shortly after the Big Bang, when the universe cooled down enough to become transparent to photons. And the photons we detect on earth have traveled since that moment and are reaching us just now. Can we see Background Radiation from everywhere in the universe, or is earth somehow special? --- One of the most fundamental assumptions of cosmology is that the universe is isotropic and homogeneous - which is called the [cosmological principle]( URL_2 ). That means by and large the universe looks the same in all directions and at all points. This suggests, that earth is *not* special in being able to see Cosmic Background Radiation. Indeed, every observer, anywhere in the universe is in the center of their own observable universe and will receive CMB (cosmic microwave background) from the edge of *their* observable universe. Thus, the question what it looks like to stand at the edge of the observable universe cannot be answered in any meaningful way. An observer is *always* at the center of their own observable universe, so - by definition - there cannot be an observer at the edge of an observable universe. > So does this mean 14 billion light years away we can look at the big bang itself? Yes! Although, due to the expansion of spacetime it is actually more like 46.6 billion light years away, and what we can actually see is the time when the universe was full of a hot, glowing plasma. That plasma was opaque (can't see much through glowing clouds) so we can't actually observe even more into the past because light from then ran into the glowing clouds at the time. > Do we somehow see the same singularity everywhere in the edge of the observable universe in any direction? Not quite, but sort of in the sense that everywhere was the singularity at one point. What we see is the period where the universe was close and very hot, but not when it was a singularity. > And this is visible anywhere in the universe for the boundary of the snapshot particular to that point? I'm not sure what you mean by this, but any other point in the universe would be able to see the same thing as we do relative to their location. Their visible universe would be centered on their location. The furthest, oldest light that can be seen by any of our telescopes is the cosmic microwave background. This is light that was emitted 360,000 years or so after the Big Bang, when the Universe cooled enough to form neutral atoms and photons could move freely without being absorbed by charged particles. Today, that light has been redshifted to microwave wavelengths by the expansion of the Universe. We can see no further back into the past than this. Say, we launch a mobile telescope that flies off in a straight line away from earth. It then flies one light-year away from earth. Can it then observe stuff that's one light year beyond the observable universe in that direction? The farthest back that we can see is the Cosmic Microwave Background Radiation. For the first 300,000 years or so, the universe was so hot and dense that light could not travel freely because it existed in a plasma together with electrons, protons and neutrons. When the universe cooled enough, the photons could separate from the plasma, and we see the light from the so called "last scattering surface" as a very uniform emission of light. The observable universe is the sphere within which objects are visible from earth, because light from those objects has had time to reach earth. Objects outside this boundary you will not see, because their light is still traveling towards earth, but not here yet. Far enough away, and you will *never* see objects, because the universe will expand faster than their light can approach us. The observable universe is much wider than 14 billion light years however, due to the expansion of the universe. We actually get a radius of about 45 billion light years. If you could see far enough back in time, the universe itself was very opaque, at an early age, to electromagnetic radiation, so seeing through that is impossible.
There's certainly a combination of variables. Social circumstances can affect how obnoxious we are willing to be with our sneezing, or coughing. Either trying to be obnoxious or trying to be stealthier and more controlled. Then there's the threshold or subjective sensations your body feels when it wants to sneeze. We all feel subjective amounts of tickling on our bodies, the same is true of what our nose can take before it has to release itself. Stuffy nose, runny nose, foreign particles caught in nose hairs, etc. All affect what has to be discharged and how aggressively. I have read that muting sneezes is bad for you because it's very easy to rupture blood vessels, especially in your eyes. Definitely not a good idea. Your questions refers to a violent sneeze and a loud sneeze, which are two different things. Others have discussed the reason for a violent sneeze. However, the noise we make when sneezing is entirely social. We mimic what other peoples sneezes sound like, or at least what we think it should sound like. More than likely if your parents yell loudly when sneezing, you probably do too. So what sound does a deaf person make when sneezing? Nothing. They don't make a sound. URL_0 Edit to add a link. What I don't understand is why some people have to yell/scream when sneezing. I get the large volume of air movement, but what does that have to do with your vocal cords?? Can't we just inhale deeply and sneeze? It's learned behaviour. Listen to deaf people sneeze sometime, they're quiet as fuck. People who sneeze obnoxiously loudly do it because they've learned to sneeze obnoxiously loudly, just like people who fart really loudly on purpose. I'll take a stab at it. It's partly due to biology, like the volume in one's lungs, one's nasal cavity, how strongly one experiences the itchy feeling of a sneeze, etc... but more than any other thing, how you sneeze is due to social conditioning. If you were conditioned to minimize your sneezes into the most timid, silent things as a kid, then that's probably how you are as an adult. If you thought it was cute to do a little hiccup giggle thing as you cover your face and flutter your eyes, or manly to roar and blink furiously, or < whatever > to sneeze a certain way as a kid, then you probably sneeze that way as an adult. And that makes up the biggest difference for why some people sneeze violently and others seem hardly effected by a sneeze.
It's quite simple. Advertisers pay money to Google/Youtube for the rights to show an advertisement before (or during) a video. Google/Youtube takes a cut of the revenue, and the Youtuber earns the rest. The amount advertisers are willing to pay in terms of cost per click or cost per view, is dependent on many factors, including but not limited to: - The popularity of the Youtuber / video - The target audience of the Youtuber / video - How competitive (from an advertiser perspective) the video is (or its associated keywords are) Certain videos are not eligible for monetization (so Youtubers typically won't earn ad revenue from them). This includes, for example, many videos depicting nudity or sex and videos containing extremely foul language or controversial / offensive topics. If a video contains commercial music, sometimes the music publisher or record label will file a copyright claim over the video and instead of taking it down will request the Youtuber's revenue share instead. So, in these cases, the Youtuber is not penalized but also does not earn ad revenue from the video. Youtubers also make lots of money (much more than standard ad revenue) by negotiating product placement deals directly with advertisers to personally use and/or promote a product (such as a mobile app, web service, gadget, etc.) within their video. My girlfriend is a popular YouTube creator (currently between 150k-250k subscribers). There are three core ways YouTubers make money. (1.) YouTube AdSense: - This is purely getting paid for views on videos, because there are ads on videos, such as display ads (the ads next to the video), overlay ads (ads that pop up at the bottom on the videos), and skippable and non-skippable video ads before the actual content. Depending on the time of the year, the amount a creator is making is roughly between $1 to $2 per 1,000 views. YouTube does this because they are getting a cut of the revenues that the advertiser is paying for on the videos. Some videos are not "monetizable", so the creator will not earn anything for the views. This is generally because of offensive content within the video. (2.) Sponsored Content: - This is advertising within the video itself. This form of advertising can occur in many different forms, but a few examples would include companies paying for their products to be featured in videos, merely having the products mentioned in a video, or saying something along the line of "this video is brought to you by [XYZ Company]." (3.) Selling Branded Products: - This one is pretty obvious. Selling t-shirts, stickers, hats, etc. My girlfriend is only involved in (1.) & (2.) at the moment, and she made ~$50k in 2016. Each community within YouTube is different, but in her sphere, the majority of earnings come from sponsored content with AdSense being a nice bonus. Companies pay to advertise on YouTube, YouTube gives a portion of that money to the uploader of videos with ads on them. The amount companies pay to advertise depends on a bunch of factors, like views of course, if it's skippable after 5 or 15 seconds, how many comments/likes the video gets, etc. The ad makers pay YouTube to put their ads on YouTube videos. YouTube keeps a portion of that money (around 30% I think) and then pays the youtuber based on how many views they get. For a non-partnered youtuber, it's about 10 views for 1 cent, 100 views for 10 cents, 1,000 views for $1, and $2,000 for 1 million views (these are all estimates, it varies a lot). I'm not sure how different it is for partnered YouTubers, but I think it depends more on who they're partnered with. It also depends on your viewer base, and more specifically, how many viewers have Adblock. On videos over 10mins you can put extra ads, and therefor some extra money.
The 'catch' is getting more people into the areas with net. Those areas will have all kinds of things that mean more taxes going to the city, like business revenue or land ownership. City-wide internet usually either means free wi-fi blanketing the city (via routers placed all over the place like lamp posts etc). This has many advantages. 1. When tourists visit the city, they don't have to use expensive roaming data and can use their mobile devices to access maps and spend money in tourist areas they wouldn't have been able to had they not been able to access the web. 2. It drives innovation. When you can't afford the internet, many doors shut to you, including a variety of entrepreneurial resources. So many people living in the middle of nowhere make their livings off ebay and etsy and all those other online e-commerce sites. This keeps people in their home towns and stops them from always moving to bigger cities. 3. Makes it easier for people to telecommute. Actually the list goes on and on for why this is a good idea. The only reason it gets shut down is because the big telecom companies don't want competition and want to keep profits as high as possible while providing the least amount of service. If something is free, it's because at that point you are not the customer, you are actually the product. City councils are supposed to serve the citizens. That includes providing services and amenities. This is a service that they can provide that many people want. That's the why: people want it. Just like people want schools, parks, roads, lamps, traffic lights, footpaths, waste collection, gardeners and cleaners etc. Enough people want these things and believe they are justified in spending money on these things, so money is spend on these things.
Words that often appear together are called "collocations", and it's simply the way we've learned them. We tend to process them as indivisible units -- phrases, rather than separate words. For example, when we say "apples and oranges", we're not thinking of two different kinds of fruit and then putting them in a list; we're using the phrase "apples-and-oranges" as a single thing, a metaphor for things that shouldn't be compared to each other. If you were listing the fruit sold by a local greengrocer, you could list apples and oranges in any order -- usually, the order they occur to you: "He's got... oranges... and apples... and bananas... and grapefruit..." URL_0 URL_1 For a more advanced explanation, you might also try /r/linguistics.
Canada has a parliamentary system, and so they have a prime minister, who is elected from among the parties within parliament itself. In addition, their upper house (the Senate, equivalent to the House of Lords in the UK) is appointed by the government, rather than elected by the population. In addition, like many parliamentary governments, the Canadian system does not have a president as head of state (the nominal head of state is the Queen of the UK). It's important to note that, while the prime minister functions as the head of the government, he technically plays a different role than the POTUS in that he is not also the head of state.
Videos like this are scams. They either want to sell you something, or more likely, they just hide a battery somewhere in there and get ~19M youtube views with very little effort. Try to make one yourself and you'll see that they do not work. Conservation of energy is a tough principle to violate. You can't generate energy from *nothing*. Magnets don't actually create energy - their motion does, and you can only get them to move by putting energy into the system. When two magnets attract each other, that's just using up the energy that was spent pulling them apart in the first place. Magnets always have two poles, [one positive, one negative]( URL_0 ). This poles are always equal in strength, and there is *no way to make a magnet that only has one pole.* Cut a magnet in half, and you have two magnets that both have a positive and negative side. Pole positive always attracts poles negative and always repulses other positive poles. If you make a wheel covered in magnets, there will always be a position where the attraction and repulsion equal out. You can spin a wheel with rapidly turning on and off electromagnets, but electromagnets need external power and it will always use more power than you extract back from the spinning wheel. ["Perpetual motion" machines always have a hidden power source.]( URL_1 ) Think of it in simple terms, you've got a fan with one blade. It begins to spin, because the magnet you are holding repels the magnet on the blade. What happens when it goes around the circle and is now approaching your magnet again? It would push it away, reversing the fan. This would oscillate, until your fan blade is eventually at the opposite point, stationary. Adding more blades does not 'erase' this effect. This video, and the thousands that came before it, are fake. This same scam has been around in one form or another for decades. I think it actually predates the internet. By the laws of thermodynamics, you can't get energy from nothing. It must be extracted from another source, such as the chemical bonds in oil, the kinetic energy in wind, the gravitational energy inna reservoir of water, or the nuclear energy of the sun. Magnets do not store their own special energy, thus there isn't anything to extract energy from to power your house. Typically these devices shown off on YouTube have an internal battery, or a hidden power cord pulling power from a wall socket. I'm happy to elaborate if you want.
They *do* hydrate the body. They contain caffeine which is a mild diuretic (makes you urinate) but overall they do hydrate. In general, they *do* hydrate you. Just less so than pure water, because caffeine is a diuretic (i.e. a chemical that makes you pee more than normal), so you urinate out more of the water content than you would for plain water (or something non-caffeinated). What *will* dehydrate you are strong alcoholic beverages, since alcohol is also a diuretic, and something with high alcohol content can make you pee out more water than the drink contained.
You are mildly mistaken. Unlike US, most European bailouts needs an underlying security. So Germany has to pawn assets in order to give the money to Greece. The European Central Bank can only buy assets and thus the quantitative easing (buying bonds). The balance sheets of the rescued banks just appear worst because of a bigger debt even though they get cash that they needed. This is why Bassel III is important as it also props up the Shareholders Equities section of the balance sheet. US banks have mostly complied but not European banks. Also without individual currencies, Euro countries cannot print money to pay off individual national debt. And with interest rates set to increase in the next few years, Euro countries would have a harder time paying off debts.
This varies a lot. The props department is often tasked with finding phones for the actors. Buying new phones is expensive, especially since the phones is going to get abuse on set and might not survive. They also need to disguise the phones so you can not determine the brand of the phone as that could get them in trouble with the manufacturers. So it is much easier to get something they have in storage that they got for cheap some time back and is already made unrecognizable in the last movie it appeared it. Sometimes there may even be stunt replicas of these phones made already. Other times they may even do it simpler and let the actor use his own phone since he have it on set already and just make sure the brand is not shown. The texting and computer displays is also quite different. Again you would not want to show anything that could get you in trouble with well established brands. You also need to make sure the screen is clear of any clutter like the clock (unless required by the plot), alerts, unused buttons, portraits, etc. that would make the screen harder to read in the few seconds it is shown on camera. You also need to be able to let the actor do one thing and the phone do another thing and make sure it is repeatable for different takes. You may also theme the screens to better fit the movie or TV show. All this would be hard to do with authentic software. You might use authentic software for the initial consent but then recreate it with your modifications so it is easier to do on screen.
The mucus comes directly from the surface of your nose, called a mucous membrane because it produces mucus to protect itself and as lubrication. This mucus is a combination of long, stringy proteins and water, which allows it to stick to most surfaces. We produce a ton of it while we have upper respiratory tract infections like the common cold because our immune systems are trying to isolate the virus causing the infection and prevent more from getting in. This measure isn't actually that effective, as it only slows down viruses and bacteria can swim right through it, but we do it anyway. Allergies do the same thing because they are an attempt by the immune system to attack something that isn't actually a disease, like pollen. We are less clear on why allergies happen, but some hypothesize that they occur due to infants and children living in environments that are far too clean. Their immune systems don't have anything to fight, so they start fighting random things instead. Some of the immediate fullness you feel is not mucus instantly generating, but your sinuses swelling back up and blocking the nasal passages. See, your sinuses are inflamed when you're sick. When you blow your nose, you kind of flex them as well so they get a bit narrower to let stuff out. Then when you're done blowing/flexing those muscles, they swell back up. That's why you can repeatedly blow your nose, have just a little bit come out, but still feel like you need to blow again. ^(i think part of your confusion is that you may not fully know the anatomy of the nasal cavity. the nasal cavity has a large surface area which aids in its function of moistening and warming air you inhale. mucus is also produced here by goblet cells which are interspersed amongst the nasal epithelium.) [^(here's a picture of the nasal cavity which might give you perspective on how large of a surface it is in there.)]( URL_0 ) Not sure if posting this too late but I had some follow up questions. I never really seem to breathe out of both of my nostrils. One seems to always have a swollen nodule and it is usually my left notril. Sometimes throughout the day they will switch sides. I am wondering if it is a common occurrence. Second to that is I always have what I am guessing is post nasal drip. Throughout the day I have to cough to clear my throat of mucus and to me it seems totally gross. People think I am sneezing. When I first wake up in the morning I have to cough quite violently because I will have a small dried gobbet stuck to the back of my throat and it will take quite a while to get cleared up. Sometimes I give myself a sore throat because of it. It is always dark brown or green in color and maybe about 2 cm in length. Doctor put me on some anti-histamines last month but they didn't do a thing. I figured it had something to do with being a smoker but I quit smoking cigarettes in 2013 and still have the issue. Then again I do vape. Been having this problem now for maybe 13 years now. Edit: Thank you so much for the feedback guys. Suppose I will be asking to be referred to an ENT soon about the drip. Your body is responding to a stimulus - "I am sick/foreign bodies detected". It then goes into security mode. SHUT. DOWN. EVERYTHING. While your skin does a great job at keeping most everything out, you obviously have openings all over. Your nose is one such place, but unlike your ears or mouth, it cannot be closed off/is closed off already (you have to breath). So our mucus membrane produces mucus. It does this already, and just like your ear wax its job is to keep foreign stuff out of your body (for the most part). When you get sick, your body doesn't want any more bad things getting in because it's already fighting one thing. This is when you are arguably at your weakest. So it produces extra mucus to keep the entrance stopped up. Unfortunately your body has no way of knowing just how far to take its defense. It is an all or nothing response. So even if it is a virus you will be over in a day, or simple pollen in the air, it turns things up to 11 and SHUTS. DOWN. EVERYTHING. But to be honest, I'd rather go hard on something than take that chance. Then again, that's how things like auto-immune diseases pop up. Follow up question: if this is a result of narrowing and expanding nasal passages, and certain people have more narrow sinuses so they need surgery, what is the evolutionary advantage of this? How did so many people (like myself) end up with chronic stuffiness and swollen sinuses? How would that be evolutionary advantageous? Mucus is water plus a protein called mucosin. You only need to add a small amount of mucosin to a lot of water to make a lot mucus. It's like gelatin you only need to add a teaspoon to a lot of water and it turns into jelly. To answer the where it is produced part, the lining of the respiratory tract is made mostly of a type of epithelia (classification of cells) called pseudostratified ciliated columnar epithelium. The mucous is produced by goblet cells which are part of the epithelium. The cilia are tiny hair like projections that face the cavity or whatever they are lining and sweep the mucous around, usually toward an exit such as the nose or throat. The mucous serves to trap dust, debris and germs which would otherwise enter our respiratory system and cause infection. There is a lot of misinformation and poor terminology going around. The sinuses are really just voids in your bones, and typically do not change significantly in size. They don't produce most of the mucus that comes out when you blow your nose. The sinus *tissues* (their lining) can become inflamed and sensitive, perhaps due to infection, not suprising since they are dark, moist, and flesh-lined structures deep in your body, perfect so microorganisms can thrive. Making things worse, most of the sinuses have only small 'openings' to the rest of the nasal cavity. It is actually the turbinate structures and their tissues which people are describing as 'expanding' (swelling) and 'blocking the nose'. These structures and other surfaces in the nasal cavity produce most of the mucus that comes out. URL_0 One more thing that I haven't seen in the comments... excess tears drain into the nasal cavity... so if you're having trouble putting your contact lenses in and your eyes water a lot, you'll want to blow your nose. So I guess if you're sick and you're eyes are watering, that contributes a lot to your runny nose. In addition to what u/frommerman said, there are also these kind of balloon things in the back of your nostrils called turbinates, which normally warm and moisturize the air you suck in through your nose. That feeling that your nose is stuffed and you can only breath out of one nostril? That's not so much mucus as it is these turbinates swelling up, blocking the passage of your nostrils. Hey maybe someone can help me here. It has now been 8 years straight of steady mucus drip down the back of my throat. It is very literally never not there. At all times. I'm now 33, started at 25. What could be causing this? Can I do anything to stop it? I've kind of taken it as 'this is my life now' but it'd be nice to get rid of. A lot of people are answering how, but here's why. Your mucus acts for two reasons. It acts as a protective barrier against some germs and helps to expel things already trapped. So while your mucus can generate very quickly, it adjusts the pace to keep the nose at an uncomfortable level without overfilling it. The same property as ferrets; their sent is intentionally maintained, so when bathed too frequently, their glands overporduce and lead to more intense sent than would be typically present. Can I add a follow up question? (Or perhaps 2 if you wanna be picky) Why, sometimes, does only one nostril feel stuffy or drippy and the other one is totally clear? Related question: When I have a stuffy nose I end up usually taking over the counter nasal spray like Afrin, which works, but doesn't last very long. Is there anything I can use that is just as (or more) effective? I was going to ask this myself recently! Another question: Why is it that congestion can switch sides so quickly? One minute my left nostril is completely stopped up with no air passing through. Then it'll switch and my right will be closed. How's that happen?
AMD is a company that makes processor chips, like Intel. AMD is trying to pitch their new **Ryzen** CPU as a solid competitor against Intel and their tech demo is a topic of much discussion about how it stacks up against the usually dominant Intel's current offerings. For the last 3-5 years, AMD hasn't come close to Intel's single core performance. With their new Ryzen, they claim to have made a huge improvement in single core performance, going (almost) toe to toe with Intel's latest CPU's. This would mean Intel finally has a competitor again, and AMD could be offering an almost equal performance at a much lower price.
Part of it might be the fact that your friend in amazing shape - muscle is considerably more dense than fat, and sinks while fat floats. Humans have a breath holding instinct annnnd that's it. Swimming and floating (the latter being kind of a beginners version of the former) are learned skills for us. Despite the aquatic ape hypothesis, we *know* we evolved for a long time or dry, arid savannas, not a lot of call for swimming. Your friend should take a class - it's not *that* hard to learn enough to save yourself (at least to do a good float or something) and may save his life. Our only real evolved instinct is holding our breath. Without basic swimming training most people will flail when submerged in water which causes them to sink in even very salt water. Basically, people need to be taught how to swim in order to swim. Most learn at a very young age at their local pool, river, lake etc but many dont either due to physical, financial or random reasons. Humans don't instinctively know how to swim. Infants have reflexes that imitate swimming motions, and instinctively hold their breath when submerged but they can't keep their head above water or know when to breathe. What seems like instinct to you is simply because you were introduced to it at a young age. Many people don't go in water deep enough to float/swim until later in life. I'm 30, can't float or tread water, and I can barely swim (cover distance) but I plan on taking lessons at the local Y.
Taste buds help to get the taste sensation. When they don't work you don't get the taste sensation. Your Brain tries to fill in the gaps.
Public Key Cryptography in a nutshell: You have two keys: a public key (that you can give out to anybody) and a private key (that — you guessed it — you keep private). Both of those keys can be used to either encrypt or decrypt messages. If you encrypt with one key, you can decrypt with the other. By giving out your public key, people can encrypt messages with it so that they know only you can read them (by decrypting with the private key). Encrypting with the private key is useful for digital signatures — we'll get there in a minute. Hash functions in a nutshell: Cryptographic Hash Functions are mathematical constructs that allow you to summarise data into a fixed size summary (called a "digest"), in a way that for the same message you always get the same digest, where you can't recover the original message from the digest, and where you can't easily find another message that produces the same summary. This is quite useful, for example, for validating that a downloaded file is correct (For hashes in current use, digests are usually like 20 or 32 characters long, irrespectively of the size of the message being hashed), or for digital signatures (we're getting there!) Digital signatures in a nutshell: Encrypting messages is annoying, because it forces the people on the reading end to have decryption software at the hand to be able to read them. This is fine when you need to keep messages secret, but sometimes what you actually need is to prove to people that it was actually you who sent a message that can perfectly well be shared publicly. A neat way to solve this: You hash the message you're going to send, then encrypt the resulting digest with your private key. It's this encrypted digest that is called a digital signature. Then you add the encrypted digest to the message. The message is still readable as-is, but now it has the signature. Anybody who has your public key can then do the following: - Hash the message themselves - Decrypt the signature with your public key, retrieving the digest you calculated on your end - Compare the digest they calculated with the one in your signature. If they match, then they have proof that you wrote the message yourself (the public/private keys ensure that you encrypted the digest, and the difficulty in finding two messages that hash to the same digest ensures that this is actually the right message) So what's the deal with the request to Julian Assange? Julian Assange has published his public key in the past, and that key is widely known. By asking him to sign a specific message, that user was basically asking JA to prove his identity — Presumably, only JA has the private key that goes with the public key we know to be his, so nobody else would be able to sign the message such that the signature would be valid as coming from JA. By choosing the message himself, he made it impossible for a fake Assange to reuse a message that the real Assange had signed in the past as a way to "prove" his identity. There's also the question of whether Assange himself still has access to those keys.
In modern professional sports in the US, franchises move primarily over stadium funding issues, and not over support. Their primary revenue driver is media deals anyway, ticket sales are really about the optics for the television viewer, and not about the small revenue stream they bring in. LA is the second biggest media market in the US after NYC, given that the NFL splits their TV deals into AFC and NFC packages that are currently owned by CBS and FOX respectively, having an LA team in each conference allows them to sell two Seperate TV packages with the LA market included. Once Kroenke was willing to finance his stadium on his own, the last roadblock was removed, and now LA has two franchises. The team leaving the city doesn't mean they weren't successful, it just meant another city made them a better deal. In fact, teams are MORE likely to leave if they are successful because other cities are more likely to court successful teams. It is a fair question. LA is the second biggest city and media market in the US, and its cultural influence is behind perhaps only NYC. By the numbers, it *should* be able to support two football teams. However, unlike other big cities, it is highly decentralized. It is less a city with suburbs, and more a bunch of cities smashed together. People in the Greater Chicago area still tend to think of themselves as living in Chicago. People in Greater LA think of themselves as living in Burbank or Thousand Oaks or San Bernadino. That makes it harder for LA to support a team. People in those cities don't have a strong sense of being from Los Angeles and aren't terribly excited at the prospect of paying taxes for a stadium. Especially when it is a 2-3 hour drive from San Bernadino to see a game.
Take y=2^x, the gradient along this line is always less than 2^x at the point x. Take y=3^x, the gradient along this line is always greater than 3^x at the point x. This implies there is a number between these two where the gradient of this line is always equal to that number to the power x at the point x. This line is called 'the exponential' and the value is quantified as e. At this point it is worth mentioning that logarithms can be taken with base 'e', this is called the natural logarithm or ln, or log*_e_*. Assuming you have covered basic calculus you will understand that if y=x*'n'* then dy/dx=n.x*'n-1'*. This is a very useful formula, and can be used for the basics of integration. If dy/dx=x*'n'* then y=(1/(n+1)).x*'n+1'* + c(integrating constant). This is also very useful, however you may have wondered what's the integral of x*'-1'*. By our formula it would be 1 divided by the sum of n(-1 in our case) plus one. Dividing by zero is undefined and hence we need a different tool to define this. This is where e and ln become useful. If y=lnf(x) then dy/dx=f'(x)/f(x) since x*'-1'* is the same as 1/x you can see that as 1 is the differential of x therefore the integral of x*'-1'* is ln(x). As ln is useful in integration e is useful in differentiation. From our definition of e^x=gradient of e^x which in a more meaningful form can show: y=e*'f(x)'* dy/dx=f'(x).e*'f(x)'* Compare this to: y=2*'x'* (to find the differential take log base e both sides) ln(y)=ln2*'x'* (ln2^x is the same as xln2 differentiate) 1/y dy/dx = ln2 dy/dx = y.ln2 dy/dx = 2*'x'*ln2 You see how much simpler e makes a simple equation, this is but one of it's aweosme properties. Power series of e*'x'*: e*'x'* = 1 + x + x*'2'*/2! +x*'3'*/3! +...+ x*'n'*/n! (Differentiates to itself!) It is also useful for explaining complex numbers by combining sin and cos power series to show a famous formula: e*'i*pi'* +1 = 0 or half a circle (pi radians) of the unit circle (radius 1 centre (0,0) plus one gets you back to zero. EDIT: If you see a number with 'number' around it imagine it as to the power of, I messed up the formatting and won't change it now.
Like all mental illnesses, schizophrenia is most likely caused by a combination of genetic, biological, social, and environmental vulnerabilities. Something to keep in mind is that effects, like changes in neurotransmitters, may come about as a result of schizophrenia--they may not cause schizophrenia itself. For schizophrenia itself, a major outcome *without prompt treatment* is loss of grey matter in the brain. This can make symptoms like hallucinations, delusions, and other positive symptoms more enduring and harder to treat, and it also affects memory. Treatment can usually prevent some or most of this loss. Usually a person develops schizophrenia because of rare genetic mutations. There is not one specific gene that causes schizophrenia. Studies show that people with the illness have several very rare genetic mutations that all contribute to the illness developing. The mutated genes cause subtle changes over time. Scientists have also found that you're more likely to develop schizophrenia if you have a first degree relative with it (mom, dad, brother, etc) however there have been people with a couple relatives that have the illness, but they have not developed it. On the subject of what schizophrenia does to the brain, it is said to be an imbalance in the brains neurotransmitters. Specifically glutamate and dopamine. There are some cases that suggest the ventricles, fluid filled cavities in the brain, are larger in patients with schizophrenia. Their brains also seem to have more or less activity in certain areas than the average healthy human would. Hope this helped some! In schizophrenia (SZ) there are positive and negative symptoms. Positive symptoms are things like delusions, hallucinations, behavioural/speech issues and thought disorders (stuff like making up new words, going off on tangents, being unable to shift focus to new subjects). Negative symptoms are often the more 'disabling' part of the disorder and involve things like not experiencing or displaying much emotion, a lack of motivation, decreased attention, generally decreased ability to enjoy anything, and poverty of speech (either being unable to speak or not speaking much). SZ is thought to primarily involve two main pathways/brain systems; the mesolimbic path/Nucleus Accumbens which is involved in the brain's reward/pleasure paths, and the mesocortical path/Prefrontal Cortex which is responsible for a whole heap of stuff involving thinking things through and behaving properly in social situations (as well as modulating attention and dampening extreme emotional responses). The prefrontal cortex (PFC) also inhibits the nucleus accumbens (N. Acc) path. Both paths are stimulated by dopamine release. Normally your PFC starts working properly in adolescence/early adulthood, but one theory states that in SZ it fails to come online due to some sort of primary issue. This leads to a few things: * A lack of PFC functions - lack of emotion, general apathy, poor attention, etc - the negative symptoms of SZ * An inability of the PFC to dampen/control the mesolimbic/N. Acc path meaning the N. Acc path becomes hyperactive causing hallucinations, delusions, speech/thought issues - the positive symptoms of SZ As for what causes the primary issue that 'breaks' the PFC, it seems that genetics play a major role in vulnerability. Genetics predisposes certain people to SZ, then an environmental stressor (e.g. hypoxic brain injury during birth, or potentially smoking pot) further increases the risk or can potentially trigger the development of SZ.
Draw a line from each rod and cone in your eye, through your lens and out into the world. Your field of view is composed of anything that intercepts those lines. These lines expand outward in a cone shape (because your eye's lens is convex), so objects that are closer are "hit" by more of these view-lines than they would be if they were distant. The lines represent how light travels from objects they're reflected off of, through your lens, and onto your rods and cones. Ultimately, the number of rods and cones an object activates determines its "size" in your field of view. This is also why holding an object closer to your eye in low-light conditions makes it easier to see: you're activating more rods and cones with the limited amount of light being reflected from the object. Easiest way is to assume your eye has coverage of 10,000 pixels, when close the tower takes up 1000, the further away you go the fewer pixels it takes up the smaller it seems. Your field of view is constant, but what is in that field of view isn't. Pick up a pillow and put it over your face. Assuming there's enough light, you should notice that the pillow is consuming your entire field of view. Now put that pillow on a chair and walk back a bit from it. Notice that your can now see things other than the pillow now. Your field of view hasn't changed, so necessarily the pillow must appear smaller within that same field of view.
Because we use the decimal system and those numbers are divisible by 10. This creates a regular pattern 2, 4, 6... ...12,14,16 and 5, 10, 15, 20 etc. Counting 7's has a less obvious pattern than that. The 2x and 5x series will create a repeating pattern in the ones digit column of any number. i.e. 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24, 26 ... (see how 2, 4, 6 repeat) and likewise 10, 15, 20, 25, ... (either 0 or 5 repeating). This repetition does not exist in the 7x and 8x series. They go 14, 21, 28, 35 and 16, 24, 32 (no repetitions in either). Yes the cycle will eventually repeat but it won't happen until 91 for 7x and 56 for 8x. Those patterns are just longer and harder for the brain to do rapid fire.
The regulations forbid embedding non-edible things inside food. While banning bits of plastic in chocolate bars is a good idea in general, it also catches kinder eggs. The legal versions have a ridge on the plastic capsule which sticks out of the chocolate, like [this]( URL_0 ). Legally, it's now two pieces of chocolate on the sides of a piece of plastic, not a piece of plastic embedded in a piece of chocolate. Do the knockoffs contain toys in their centre, surrounded by chocolate? Probably a stupid question, but what about fortune cookies? If they've banned edible items that contain non edible items, why are fortune cookies ok? The knockoffs circumvent the rule against a non-food prize entirely enclosed in chocolate. One version featured two chocolate halves surrounding a plastic core. The seam where the halves met was the plastic outer rim of the inner shell. Just today I saw that Kinder has finally solved the problem--sort of. They're now offering the Kinder "Fun" egg, which is two half-egg plastic pods. One side holds the toy prize, and the other holds Kinder chocolate paste and two crunchy candy balls. There's a small scoop between the halves you can use to eat the chocolate paste. Edit: seems I remembered the name wrong. Yes, it's "Joy" not "Fun." The real question you should be asking is "why are kinder eggs banned, but full auto assault rifles aren't?" Just kidding no offence The only place I've seen the knockoffs is at mom and pop type marts and privately owned grocery stores. There was no plastic piece separating the chocolate like the picture posted above. It was small plastic toys inside a full chocolate hollowed egg. They were delicious but also probably bought illegally. Now if they realized it was illegal or not I have no idea. I bought the entire pack and my kid loved it! As a Canadian with full access to kinder eggs, I buy the kinder bars. The original kinder bars with the milk filling are basically the kinder egg chocolate but without the lame toy. Jolly ranchers are way more dangerous anyway. Don't give hard candy to children (or drunk people, people driving, walking, etc) We used to have wonderballs with toys in them but that got stopped in the 90's due to lawsuits. I always thought it was just because they're a hazard to unsupervised curious kids. Kinder used to have the tiny toys you had to assemble, where as the eggs now have stickers or assembled toys. I was one of those kids. My mom owned a store that sold them so I had access to hundreds of them. Unsupervised 4 year old me stuck a piece up my nose. Was up there 2 weeks before someone noticed a "smell". Had to have surgery to remove it, it was lodged that far up. On sad and tragic note, the creator of the Kinder Surprise eggs passed away a couple days ago. URL_0 Because America is much more protectionist than people care to admit. It's the same way for lots of foreign products like cheese, they're protecting their farmer's industries They're not, technically. Ethnic Stores are exempt from certain laws involving food - including the one about toys inside of candy. There's a guy who owns the patent of closing chocolate that's been approved here in the states. He was on [Shark Tank]( URL_1 ) . Since he holds the patent that gets around the issue, everyone has to use his company. He explains himself pretty well during the [episode.]( URL_0 ) .
Carbonated means that the liquid has Carbon Dioxide dissolved in it. When you shake a bottle of soda, the Carbon Dioxide is 'released' from the liquid and expands, building pressure in the bottle.
Honestly its not a "huge" issue but it does need to be addressed. Most people accuse Illegals of taking jobs and utilizing social programs without paying into them, which is mostly bs. For the most part the jobs they take are low wage laborer jobs that no one else will take. They also are not eligible for social programs and are able to pay taxes so they are usually not a "drain" on the economy. They do however have an unemployment rate higher than the national average and are a high risk group in terms of crime. They also tend to send more money out of the country than any other group. Honestly the U.S immigration problem is a systematic more than anything else. Yeah, it's not remotely ruining our economy. If it was, you guys would have felt it, given that your economy is basically an extension of ours. That being said, illegals do have effects. They generally take very low paying jobs in agriculture or industrial work, and as a result compete with American workers. However, there's also quite a bit of evidence to suggest that Americans simply won't do the kinds of jobs illegals end up doing in the United States, and because they lack proper identification they can't really work "real" jobs in the US at all. The biggest problems are that illegal immigration is going to be associated with all sorts of other negative issues, particularly crime, gang, and drug related stuff, but that's also pretty much confined to areas where illegals end up living (e.g. they're a problem in Texas or Southern California, but not in North Dakota). They also eat into our welfare programs a little, but there's reason to believe that they generate a fair amount of economic activity, such that their net effect on the economy is probably impossible to conclusively pin down as a net positive or negative. Not as much as he would make you believe. It isnt whats killed our economy, although it does cost us. the healthcare they get for free (usually through clinics) are payed by the tax payers. However, a lot of stuff that get attributed to them simply isnt true. *illegals* arent stealing our jobs. Its exceedingly difficult for illegals to get any kind of work, benefits, food stamps, etc. Theres a lot of red tape and citizenship verification, you *need* a social. which they dont have. The jobs they do get, are ones American citizens turned down. These are under the table positions (for under min wage) at small town businesses. The equivalent of a parent making their child work in the family business (which in many states doesnt have to be a paid position). Except doing this with illegals is highly illegal. It isnt affecting crime like he says, gangs are, but our Hispanic gangs are filled with citizens who were born here, not illegal. its a problem yes, but it isnt whats killing us nor is a wall going to fix things. But its very, very easy to build a platform or get votes if you can channel blame. It's hard to quantify. That whole "undocumented" thing makes them pretty hard to track. One thing that few try to dispute is 10 million illegal immigrants depresses the average wage.
Because people generally want to know what a movie is about before they go see it and in the ~2 minutes a trailer lasts voiceover narration is the best way to communicate to the viewers what the movie is about.
Alright, take it like this: A processor is a laborer who's job it is to take loads of materials up to the architect and builders. Other laborers might be able to move up and down the hill just as fast as our laborer, but are less efficient with the loads that they bring. Every five minutes our laborer takes two armfuls of materials up the hill, with another third load, on his back. The loads are already pre-sorted, and grouped for efficiency. The other laborers can only carry one load at best, and cannot do operations on the load they are carrying, such as sorting or math. At the end of the day the other laborers, have made the same amount of trips up the hill, maybe even more. However, our laborer has allowed for more work to have been done. In short his work per cycle was higher. In a processor, the frequency (e.g. 3.2ghz) is the amount of cycles, or "trips up the hill" done in one second. 1Hz would be one "trip up the hill." 3.2gHz would be 3.2x10^9Hz or 3,200,000,000 "trips up the hill." Old pentium processors had a high rate of cycles, but did very little work per cycle. Cores in a processor can be viewed as our laborer being able to call in his friends to help with the work. But, these friends end up standing around, and are only useful if the architect designed the project to have multiple tasks that multiple people could work on. If four columns have to be constructed, then 4 efficient laborers could bring the materials quickly. If only one column is needed, the four laborers would not be needed. One laborer could bring the materials just as quickly as the task cannot be sub-divided, or in computer speak "multi-threaded."
I don't think it necessarily feels hydrating. It may feel refreshing to drink cold water, but it hydrates you just the same.
Bread rises when baked. The flat bottom portion was on the bottom of the pan, and the "fluffy" top was allowed to rise up in the over. The same thing happens with muffins, and loaf bread, and lots of baked goods. You could flip it upside down, but it generally makes sense for the flat portion to be the bottom. someone posted an LPT a couple weeks back about just eating the thing upside down to solve your problem.
Do you know what the word "omniferous" means? It means "bearing many things". Have you ever seen or heard that word before? I'm going to assume you haven't. Do you know how to say it? Even though you've never heard it pronounced? Of course you do. They know how to read music, just like you know how to read letters. **Edit:** [Here's a dramatization of a composer seeing another composer's sheet music for the first time]( URL_0 ). That specifically starts at about three minutes in, but the whole scene is great. Yes. They just play according to the notes and the conductor's directions. Music is a language that can be read like any language. A person skilled enough to be in an orchestra playing a composer's original, unheard piece is going to be very, very good at reading music.
Back in the day--maybe pre-1990s?--year-round fresh (not frozen, not concentrate) OJ was not as common and was more expensive. Then, some great new process was devised and it became more common and cheaper. With the new process, it's squeezed, then stored in vats for months at a time. This process caused it to lose flavor. So flavor is added before it is sold. Different brands have slightly different flavor processes so taste different. And these have a different flavor and consistency than genuine fresh-squeezed OJ. Go get some genuine fresh squeezed from Whole Foods or similar and you'll taste the difference. OJ is deoxygenated to prevent spoilage. That causes flavor loss. Companies create ^artificial natural flavor packs from "Orange essence and oils" to reflavor the OJ. Every company uses different blends. [source]( URL_1 ) Edit: also... URL_0 "Juice companies therefore hire flavor and fragrance companies, the same ones that formulate perfumes for Dior and Calvin Klein, to engineer flavor packs to add back to the juice to make it taste fresh." URL_0 There are dozens of types of oranges: navels, tangelos, tangerines, temples, mercots, hamlins, valencias, parson brown, etc. Just like apples, every different type of orange looks and tastes a bit different. Some are better for eating fresh and some are better for juice. Some are very popular, some are not as popular, and some are cheap since there is a huge supply and some are expensive. Some are grown in Florida, some in California, and some in Brazil. So every manufacturer sources their oranges from a different place and of course that makes them taste a bit different. And as other posters mentioned, December is the main time for oranges to be harvested, with some a bit before that to a bit after that. Freezes can damage or reduce the crop forcing juice manufacturers to change the mix of oranges they use. Since we need orange juice year round, some manufactures put the juice in giant oxygen-free holding tanks at 33 degrees and keep it there for up to six months. This damages the taste so they add in "flavor packs" which are also made from orange oils (which I think is somehow distilled out of the orange peels, but I'm not really sure). So you can see, there are hundreds of variables which go into how orange juice tastes, and the big companies spend tons of money making sure that their juice tastes the same no matter what time of year it is, or what materials they have to make it with. [Simply Orange is anything but that, it's a Frankenstein's monster of orange juice.]( URL_0 ) My wife worked at the Tropicana factory in Los Angeles. The stuff that went in the bottles for the expensive naked juice brand was the same as the stuff out in the cheap Tropicana bottles. Same shit, marketed to two different people at two price points One of the reasons that you get different flavors is time spent in processing and travel. But the biggest determiner of flavor is the orange it self. Both Tropicana and Simply Orange use oranges from Florida but they also use fruit from South America because it's cheaper. Florida's Natural however, only uses fruit from local growers and imho tastes much better! Source: my family owns an orange grove that sells its oranges to Florida's Natural and my grandfather was the president of the citrus growers association for years and years. Orange juice from a supermarket typically has been processed a great deal. It may have been heat treated to kill germs. It may have been stored for months. It may have been concentrated and then restored. It may have been frozen and then thawed. It may have extra orange flavor added (extract from additional oranges) to intensify the flavor. Because *[neither]( URL_0 )* is actually orange juice. The sugar content and taste of an orange varies depending on where it's produced. When Simply Orange was introduced Minute Maid chose to use a blend of oranges from different sources, with different sugar contents and tastes, in order to produce a product that both tastes like what they want and has a very consistent taste across different batches. Tropicana uses different rules for determining what goes into each batch, which results in both a different and less consistent taste. Source: My father, retired, worked for Minute Maid at a factory which produced Simply Orange. Basically there are a lot of ingredients that companies don't have to list, such as flavors packs. Tropicana is orange flavored orange juice. As already mentioned they probably have different "Extras" in them, but even if you would have 2 Bottles of 100% freshly pressed Juice they could taste different because some Oranges are sweeter and some are more Sour usw. If we would make everything with our own Hands the most things would taste slighty different each time we make them . This is just another reason you should eat fruit instead of juice. Have a fresh, delicious orange 🍊 Because they mislead you. 100% pure orange juice (from concentrate). This is why there is no pulp. It is a bit like instant soup. They make it. Cook and dry it into a powder (concentrate) and then add water back i to it when they bottle it for sale. If you want real fruit juice your best bet is making ir yourself. You can always check the ingredients. It is the only plac they are not allowed to lie. Yep, OJ is fucked up. Also when you see low calorie /low sugar juice it means they add water and dilute the juice. So you just bought diluted juice, when you could dilute it for yourself. When you see "juice" labeled as juice drinks, juice cocktails, etc are not 100% fruit juice.
There are two things that make ice cream soft - the ice is in very small crystals, and tiny bubbles of air mixed into it. When you melt and refreze it, some of the air bubbles merge to create bigger bubbles with more solid material around them, and the ice crystals that form are much bigger, tying the mass together. So you end up with ice cream that is a lot harder and less 'creamy'.
What you are referring to is a long postulated but, newly emerging field of study of the Enteric Nervous System (ENS) also known as ‘second brain’, based on its size, complexity and similarity — in neurotransmitters and signalling molecules — with the brain. [Source Study]( URL_0 ) The ELI5 is that there are a multitude of complicated pathways between your gut and your brain. When something "feels off", your gut is sending signals to your brain. Those signals influence neurons in your brain and your decision making I always taken it as intuition. This is from a standpoint of something external to your body. Think of it like some part of your subconscious brain is picking up signals and paying attention to your enviroment outside of what you are focused on. It makes sense for part of your brain to look for danger, predators, while you doing something else mundane like picking berries. You get the intial flight or fight response and it brings your focus to what danger your subconscious sees. Why is that man acting weird or sick or in a dangerous way type of thing. It takes awhile to figure out what social cues the guy is violating and why you see him as a threat.
A/C uses a gas which is compressed, the heat is extracted from it using a coil and a fan, and then is allowed to expand, and it cools considerably, then a 2nd fan blows air through that coil which absorbs heat and cools the room air. Thats why the outside unit of an A/C system blows hot air, its cooling the compressed gas.
The larger bowl games (Rose, Sugar, Orange, Peach, Cotton, Fiesta) are traditionally given to the champions of each conference. For example, the Rose Bowl is traditionally between the conference champions from the Big Ten and the Pac-12. Each one is different, some are conference champ vs conference champ, while some are against an at-large opponent. These are generally played on/around New Year's Day. Each year [two out of those 6 bowl games are selected to be semifinals]( URL_0 ) based off of a rotation. This means that tradition is just thrown aside from these two games, and the 4 most highly ranked teams in the nation, regardless of conference, face each other in a 4-team playoff. This year, the Fiesta and Peach Bowls were the semifinal games, and the winners of each will play in the National Championship Game. The championship game itself doesn’t have a "bowl" associated with it, it's just called the National Championship Game. Aside from the two playoff games and the other traditional bowl games mentioned above, the remaining 39 bowl games are distributed based off of record and final rankings, and don't necessarily have a lot of meaning behind them. To be bowl eligible, a team needs to have a record of at least 6-6 at the end of the regular season. At times, not enough teams meet the 6-6 requirement, so teams with losing (5-7) records may be used to fill in the empty spots. Teams just squeezing past the requirements get stuck in games like the "Dollar General Bowl" or "Famous Idaho Potato Bowl", which don't mean much unless your team is in it. The Outback Bowl or Citrus Bowl would be more desirable, but require a higher rank/record to be placed into. It's sort of confusing really, with the playoff system being added into the existing bowl games just recently. Plus all the sponsorship doesn't really help, some Bowls get renamed quite a bit thanks to that. Tl;Dr: 6-6 record is needed to become eligible for a bowl. They are assigned based off of a combination of record, rank, and sometimes tradition. [These are the ones what you want your team to play in.]( URL_0 ) If your team isn't in one of those 6, just hope they're in one sponsored by a big company. Post-season play in college football is a tricky topic that is perpetually subject to scrutiny and debate. Currently, post-season games (Bowls) are chosen based on the College Football Playoff rankings. While these rankings may often seem arbitrary and subjective, they are based on a number of metrics designed to create as objective a system as possible. Still, fans have never and will never be completely sold on the objectivity of the rankings. Only the top 4 places in the year-end rankings compete for the National Championship. They play in a bracketed playoff with a 1-4 matchup and a 2-3 matchup. This year, those games were the Peach Bowl and the Fiesta Bowl, respectively. The winners, Alabama and Clemson, will play for the National Championship. Still, this leaves the rest of the the bowl games. This is where things get really confusing. Many of these games are played between conference champions (or conference runner-ups, if the champion is in the playoff). That is the case of this year's Rose Bowl between Big Ten Champion Penn State and Pac-12 runner up USC. However, Ohio State played in the CFP Playoff, despite losing the head-to-head against Penn State and finishing behind Penn State in the Big Ten Conference. Hence, the subjectivity. Other bowls are awarded to teams who played exceptionally well in non-power conferences. Such is the case in this year's Cotton Bowl where Western Michigan (from the inconsequential Mid-American Conference) will play the Big Ten Runner-Up Wisconsin. Unfortunately, the bowl game system has also fallen victim to American corporate culture. Any company with enough money can sponsor a bowl game of no consequence. On one hand, this provides an annual goal for teams of a lower caliber (a team only needs to finish with 6 wins to become bowl eligible). On the other hand, who really wants to watch the Meineke Car Care Bowl? In conclusion, the whole thing is a crap shoot. You basically have to go undefeated to secure a spot in the playoff, so every game matters. College football is one of the last things we are allowed to be completely fanatic about. Nothing beats tailgating at 8 am on a Saturday in October with some buddies and a case of Natty Light. There's a sense of hope in college football that doesn't exist elsewhere. It's a fucked up system where any year could be the year. Be sure to tune in to the Rose Bowl tomorrow. We are.
Let's say I gave you a ruler, and told you to measure the length of Manhattan. How would you go about doing that? Obviously, measuring it one foot at a time would be impractical. But you could use the ruler to measure the length of one of your steps. You count how many steps were in a city block, then just count the number of blocks between the Staten Island Ferry and the Harlem River. It wouldn't be perfectly accurate or precise...not all your steps would be the same, and not all city blocks are the same. But it would be good enough to tell you it was 10-15 miles long, and definitely not 5 or 50. We measure stellar distances the same way, with what is called the Cosmic Distance Ladder. This starts with the size of earth's orbit. This was first measured in the 18th Century by observing Venus pass in front of the sun and later confirmed with radar and spacecraft. This provides us with a precise figure for the Astronomical Unit (AU), which is the basis for the measuring the distance to the closest stars. Hold your thumb out at arm's length, and look at it, first with one eye closed, then they other. You'll notice how it seems to jump back and forth compared to the background. This is called parallax, and we could estimate the length of your arm from how much your thumb is jumping. We can do the same with a star, by observing it on January 1st, then looking at it again on July 1st. If it is close to the earth, it will jump a little, because the earth's position will have changed by 2 AU. We can use this draw a great big triangle, do some math, and come up with a good estimate for the star's distance. 61 Cygni was the first star to be measured in this way, in the early 19th Century, and found to be about 12 light years away. With modern equipment, we can use this technique to accurately measure stars within about 1000 light-years. The next rungs on the ladder are what are known as standard candles. All 100-watt light bulbs are equally bright, so if you knew you were looking at one off in the distance, you could figure out how far away it was by measuring its apparent brightness. The tricky bit is doing it with stars, as some stars are much brighter than others. There is a special kind of star known as a Cepheid variable. They change in brightness at very regular intervals, and the faster the change, the brighter they are. You can measure how fast they change (their period), and know whether you are looking at the equivalent of a 10-watt star or 200 watts. There are Cepheid variables close enough to measure using stellar parallax. Much like you used the size of your step to measure a city block, once you know the distance of one Cepheid, you know the distance of all of them. In the 1920s, Edwin Hubble (namesake of the Hubble telescope) shocked the world when he found a Cepheid in the Andromeda Nebula (now Galaxy), determining it was 2 million light years away, and showing the universe to be far larger than we previously thought. Cepheid variables and other standard candles are good out to a few million light years. Supernovae can be used as standard candles as well, at a few billion light years, but you have to be lucky enough to find a galaxy with one in progress. To go beyond this, you need to measure red-shift. Hubble also noticed the further away a galaxy is, the faster it is moving away from us. This stretches the light waves out, shifting them towards the red end of the spectrum. Elements in stars, like hydrogen, have a distinctive spectral pattern. By observing how far the pattern is shifted, we can tell how fast an object is receding from us, and that value corresponds with its distance. This allows us to measure the distance up to the limits of the known universe, about 13 billion light years away. How do we know it is accurate? Just like we went from a ruler to a step to a block to an island, we climb the cosmic distance ladder. We measure the distance from the earth to the sun directly. We use that value to get the nearest stars through parallax. Some of those stars will be standard candles, and we can use their distance to measure any galaxies we find them in. And some of those galaxies will be red-shifted, so we can use their distance to measure all other red-shifted galaxies. This is a pretty awesome illustration of how science works, one discovery building on another, one technique extending another, often spanning centuries. When a satellite in space gathers data to measure a newly discovered quasar, it is all as based on a chance encounter with Venus 250 years ago.
Where I live, Odd and Even correspond to cardinal directions. North sides of streets are odd, even is south; West sides of avenues are odd, even is east. Addresses are based on distance from the American border to the south and from the ocean to the west. It's really easy to figure out where any given house is even without knowing cross streets or anything.
Because you phone isn't completely dead yet. It "shuts down" when it has a small about of power left and uses that remaining power to display the low power message and keep your data open. Lithium-ion batteries are never intentionally drained to zero; doing so would cause irreversible damage, and possibly create an unsafe situation. Instead, devices will cut off at some point to avoid damaging the battery. To reassure users that their phone is still in working order, but with a low battery, the phone may turn on the screen for a brief moment and/or flash a LED.
I'll assume by "shrinking" you mean the same thing as being squished together. In that case, no. The average human body (~69 kg) cannot be contracted further than a mere [1.025x10^-25 m]( URL_0 ) (which is 10 orders of magnitude - 10 billion times - smaller than an electron), as it would inevitably collapse into a black hole. For any practical purpose, that theoretical limit is _pretty_ utopistic, and besides, you wouldn't live to tell the story anyway.
Regarding healthy and unhealthy fats: generally speaking: the membranes of your cells always feflect the stuff you eat. Of course the body has its own fattyacid metabolism and can contribute here. but regarding the fats the general rule applies: you are what you eat. On the other hand: the milk you produce contains still certain healthy components eitherway. like omega3 fats that are important for the brain of the baby. Thats a propriety of breastmilk that should not be influenced by diet.
To keep is simple.... (maybe overly so). The atoms aren't sitting there doing nothing. They're a bit like a rubber band stretched around a package. It looks like it's just sitting there, but in reality there is all this energy just waiting to get loose. To release it you have to overcome what's called [binding energy]( URL_0 ), in the case of the rubber band that's applying enough cutting force to cut the rubber, releasing the energy and letting the rubber band fly off. In atoms that binding force is really high because the internal "tension" (thinking of that rubber band again) is incredibly high. Once you pump in enough energy it can sort of fly apart like the rubber band did, but its energy compared to its mass is immensely higher due to that stored internal tension. That's an overly simple explanation, but may help you visualize what's happening a bit better. There are sort of two answers to this question, and they are interconnected. One is, "what is the direct source of energy from splitting an atom?" The other is, "what is the ultimate source of that energy?" For the first one, the mass at the center of an atom (the nucleus) is made up of protons and neutrons. Protons have a positive electric charge, just like the positive end of a magnet. If you've tried to put two positive ends of a magnet together you know how violently they resist, even though you are big and strong and they are just a tiny magnet. The reason the protons stay in a nucleus in the first place is because they, and the neutrons, also have the "strong force" which means, basically, that at very close distances protons and neutrons like to be stuck to each other. At longer distances, though, the electromagnetic force kicks in and protons don't like to be near each other. A uranium nucleus is very heavy (92 protons), and so very positively charged. It is just about at the threshold for how big you can make an atomic nucleus and have it not spontaneously fall apart (radioactive decay) relatively rapidly. If you shoot a neutron at it, it'll get added to the nucleus, and it'll also impart a little bit of momentum to it. Think of it as shooting a pea into a big lump of jello. The jello will wobble a bit. If the nucleus wobbles enough, one half can get slightly outside of the range of the strong force of the other half. If that happens then the very strong positive forces will repel each other, and it'll be like two half-uranium atoms that just happened to get uncomfortably close to one another. So they rocket apart from each other with great violence. The movement of these two rocketing "cannonballs" of atomic nuclei (once a single nucleus, now split) accounts for about 80% of the energy released by a fission reaction. The rest comes from radiation, including neutrons, some gamma rays, a few other things, that sort of leak out of these half-atoms. The amount of energy released from a single fission reaction is about 200 MeV. You don't have to know what an MeV is, but a chemical reaction is on the order of a few eV, so it is millions of times more powerful, per reaction, than, say, TNT might be. 200 MeV is about as much energy as it takes to visibly move a speck of dust, which isn't much from a human standpoint, but atoms are _much_ smaller than specks of dust. It's on the order of an ant being able to visibly move the Space Shuttle. If each reaction starts with neutrons, and also releases neutrons, then you can set things up in a way that means each reaction creates more reactions (a "chain reaction"), and if you can get that really going fast you can release a _lot_ of energy (if you release it in a relatively controlled fashion, that's a nuclear reactor; if you release as much as possible as quickly as possible, that's a nuclear bomb). So that answers the first question, where that energy _directly_ comes from: electrostatic repulsion of the fission products (the half-atoms), plus a little radiation. But wait, you say, where's E=mc^2 in this explanation? That's the _ultimate_ source of the answer. We know from physics (thermodynamics, specifically) that you can't just make energy from nothing. So we know that any release of energy is really just a conversion of energy that was already there. What's the energy that was "already there" for fission? This is the _binding energy_, which is to say, the energy that it took to "bind up" the protons and neutrons originally into a nucleus. Heavy elements were created by exploding stars (supernovae) a very long time ago. They exploded, pushed lots of protons and neutrons together, and billions of years later some of that stuff settled into planets and rocks and things and now we have heavy elements like uranium in the ground. Bound energy corresponds to a tiny bit of mass. It isn't like a particle gets converted into "pure energy" or anything like that. It's that a nucleus bound up with protons and neutrons weighs a tiny bit more than the protons and neutrons would if they were just hanging out on their own. When you convert them down, you re-release some of that "binding energy." Again, it isn't a lightning bolt or anything like that — the energy is actually in those atoms that are repelling from one another. E=mc^2 doesn't explain really the specifics of how this energy is released; that requires more "low level" physics. What the equation tells you is why suddenly releasing a bunch of energy, millions of times more than you'd get from a chemical reaction, doesn't violate the conservation of mass and energy. Sorry this is long-winded. But I think for a strong, intuitive understanding of what's going on, E=mc^2 doesn't really cut it — it doesn't give you a good sense of what's actually going on in the reaction and how that translates into real energy. Uranium is split into Rubidium and Caesium. It takes 1 neutron to do so and it releases 2 neutrons in the processes. If you calculate the mass of all parts you'll notice that the mass decreases across the calculation. This is released as energy which can be calculated by E=mc^2 . Per atom this is tiny but this is a chain reaction that very very very quickly results in shit loads of atoms splitting and releasing their energy.
Just NATO. They've been there forever. We've got bases all over the world. And everyone likes military bases. They bring some headaches (having a bunch of soldiers wandering around is like having a bunch of college kids wandering around: they get drunk, bored, and ornery), but they dump a *massive* amount of money into the local economy.
During conception you get 50% of your genes from your father and 50% from your mother. But you still have the same number of genes so there is 50% of the genes from each parent you do not get. Your siblings will have the same distribution of genes. So of the 50% of the genes you get from each parent your sibling will have on average 50% of them and 50% of the genes your parents have not given you. So you end up sharing 50% of your genes with your sibling. For instance your dad have a gene for developing testicles which makes you into a man, however there is still a 50% chance that this trait is the same in your sibling then in you. To better visualize how this works. You take a deck of cards and divide it into red and black suits. This represents the genes of your parents. Now on random chose 13 cards at random from each of those decks numbered 2 to A. The new deck will have equally many black and red suits. This represents your genes. Now repeat the task with another deck of cards and you end up with a deck for your sibling. Since you picked the cards at random you now share half the cards in the decks. You get around 50% of each parent's genes. Which genes you get from which parent is random. So a sibling probably won't get the same combination of genes you do. About half will be the same ones you got, and about half will be from the other parent. > > Isn't it true that they're getting 100% of the same amount of DNA from the same genetic source (their parents)? no humans have 46 chromosomes , and get 23 from each parent. your parents each have 46 chromosomes. so they give their kids only half of their chromosomes. chances are you aren't going to get the exact same 23 from both parents as your siblings get since the choice is random There's also crossing over to consider. The 46 chromosomes in a human are arranged in pairs. During the process where cells become sperm or egg (meiosis) the legs of the pairs kind of wrap around each other and trade little pieces of genetic material. This is called crossing over, it ensures diversity. It's another reason why siblings look different even though the genetic material comes from the same source. Even if you got the same chromosomes from each parent as your siblings, the chromosomes themselves would be different. No two egg or sperm are exactly alike, not even in the case of identical twins. That happens when a fertilized egg splits into two embryos during early development. I mean...statistically speaking they could be, but like someone earlier said, the chances are astronomical.
Yes, but also the other way. We've been trained by sci-fi to associate the two. Much sci-fi takes inspiration from deep sea creatures, even historic depictions of monsters often were people trying to explain creepy shit out of the waves. Eldritch horror is expressly inspired by deep sea beasts and fear of the unknown. We use deep sea as a analogy for space too. So aliens are often deep see inspired. Not to mention many deep sea beasts live in high pressures, and are often warped or bloated by our lower pressure environment. Not to mention how we just ignore how ugly normal creatures are. Look at a lobster, penguin, or turtle in the mouth. Hope that helps!
The Roman Calendar had the New Year starting in March and went like this: * Martius (March) * Aprilus (April) * Maius (May) * Iunius (June) * Quintilis * Sextilis * September * October * November * December At some point January (Ianuarius) and February (Februarius) were added, but different versions have them placed in different places. Finally we have the Julian Calendar, set by Julius Caeser, which set the beginning of the year as Ianuarius (January) and renamed Quintilis to Iulius (July) and Sextilis as (eventually) Augustus (August). There used to be 10 months until Julius caesar introduced the Julian calendar, which added the months January and february URL_0 This link explains it a bit, although if you're a non native speaker I hope it's not too hard to read It is Latin actually and the names date back to a time before we had January and February as months (winter was a month-less time). When the two months were added the names were kept.
The Honey badger isnt immune to the venom but just has thick skin and fur, and usually the venom doesn't penetrate their skin AKA Honey badger dont give a shit
It has to be very cold, for a long time. Most people know moving water can't freeze, but in real life scenarios, there's always a spot where water comes in contact with a solid surface (The rock or ice) that momentarily brings the fluid to a stop, in that short amount of time it has to be cold enough to freeze the water, this spot is called a nucleation spot (where things start). From there it just basically builds outwards until the whole thing is frozen, the water freezing like a column as it flows down and hits the ice below, layer by layer. Edit: I am surprised by how many people find this interesting/upvoting, it's ice to see so many people take an interest Edit 2: Now my highest up-voted comment, with my lisp I never thaw that coming For my little ice climbing experience, sometimes only the outer layer of the waterfall freeze and liquid water is still flowing inside (That's really impressive to ear the noise of water). I've also seen some "artificial" ice fall made for climbing. Basically they spray water over a wall. The Water will ice on the ground or in contact with the rock, Then the water passing over will freeze on the first layer of Ice and slowly you get a fully frozen waterfall... A waterfall gets the water from many small water bodies upstream from the waterfall itself. If the area with the waterfall was the only area with freezing temperature, the mass of water would move to quickly to freeze. But this is not the case. As it gets colder the smaller streams upstream freezes. And all the water in the ground that eventually would make it to the river freezes solid in the soil. This brings the river that leads to the waterfall to also have less water, and eventually this also freezes. This again reduces the amount of water feeding the waterfall, making it easier for the low temperature to take hold of the water and slowly freezing it bit by bit. Where it eventually is just a trickle of water reaching the once majestic cascade, that is now a solid frozen pillar of ice. > If the water is continuously falling at a rapid pace In many places where you get fantastic frozen waterfalls, the water is not falling at a rapid pace but is instead a slow trickle that keeps building and building from a single icicle into an entire frozen wall. Keep in mind that river levels will drop when temperatures are below freezing since there is no runoff to feed it, so they won't be running full tilt just prior to freezing. [Maligne Canyon in Jasper, AB Canada]( URL_0 ) is a good example of that. If you go by in the summer time the walls are leaking but there is no waterfall there. In this case at least, there are parts of the river & karst system that run underground and keep the water warm enough that it will continue flowing to the surface even when temperatures are -20C and colder. Of course, when something huge like Niagara Falls freezes, that's a different story and u/Skaffer's explanation covers that scenario better.
1. Our body works very hard to accumulate semen. (as compared to other bodily fluids like blood, plasma, saliva, urine etc) 2. Orgasms are a very prominent entity for our reward system. (this is because procreation is the top line item in nature's agenda) 3. Evolution selects for the path of least resistance. 4. Overwhelming the reward centers with constant stimulus is termed as an addiction and causes severe problems with mood and well-being. If we were able to orgasm on command, it would be too big a burden both physically and psychologically for evolution to allow to remain
If hunting deer it is recommended because deer are color blind. The orange is so other hunters can id you and not shoot you. You want to stand out because you don't want other hunters to accidentally shoot you. Yes, this might occasionally also make you stand out to some of the animals you are hunting (though not always cause not all animals perceive the world in the same way) but in the end, it's better for something to get away because it spotted you than for you to get shot. Many animals cannot perceive color in the same way as humans can. What is bright orange to us is a much more bland and less distinct color in relation to the colors around it to many animals. In this way to a deer or such a camouflage pattern with part of the color replaced with bright orange will function similarly to a regular camo pattern when seen by an animal. To add to these answers, in certain types of hunting you actually don't want to hide at all. For example in pheasant/quail hunting, where you have a lot of hunters moving around in tall grass trying to herd the birds, orange gear is immensely useful there.
Brown sugar is actually white sugar, however they add in about 2% unrefined molasses for colour and flavour. 'Organic' sugar does not receive milk of lime in the refining process (the step before the product is turned into white sugar), which leaves in brown in colour too, making it slightly more healthy (according to the tour guide). SOURCE: Durban sugar tour There is more molasses in brown sugar. White sugar is very highly refined, almost pure sucrose (^C 12 ^H 22 ^O 11).
Have you ever gotten into situations, where you are technically within a social group, but that group simply let's you tag along, while ignoring you completely? That's basically what shadowbanning is.
When you get tired, certain hormones that restrict blood, and keep you awake, like epinephrine and cortisol are reduced in your blood, and that can cause blood to accumulate in the eye area, the skin on/around your eyelids is much thinner than most of the rest of your body, so the blood can cause puffiness and show up dark in that area.
Iodine is added to salt because there used to be a real problem with iodine deficiency in the US, leading to all sorts of thyroid issues. Goiters everywhere, man. Salt was the most obvious candidate for mass-supplementing, as almost everyone used it, it is nearly impervious to spoilage (although an opened package of iodine salt will lose its iodine content rather quickly), and it was chemically feasible: iodine is added AS a salt, sometimes as sodium iodate or sodium iodide. As for fluoride, same motivation. Mass health srvices. People's teeth were fucked. I mean just awful. As bad as the British. They put it in the water because, again, everybody drinks water. And it's pretty easy, sodium flouride readily dissolves in water. There is a lot of debate (some of it from anti-vaxxer type sources, some legitimate) about the safety of fluoridated water for children especially. It is also being argued that improved acces to oral care - especially toothpastes with flouride - may have made the addition of flouride to water unnecessary. They are both added for the sake of public health. Fluoride is added to prevent tooth decay and other oral diseases and iodine is added to prevent mental disabilities. The CDC views adding fluoride to the water supply as one of the key factors to the growth of a healthy first world.
2 reasons for this: 1. The fingers are generally wider near the knuckles than at the fingertips. 2. If you stroke one of your fingers with another from nail to knuckles, you will find that skin has more resistance when you're moving knuckle to fingertips than vice versa, mainly because there's more skin near the knuckles than the fingertips so it kind of bunches up and resists more than going the opposite direction. Credit to /u/super_ag for the more accurate reason. Check out the shape of the knuckles in this picture: URL_0 See those knobby lobes jutting out at the bottom of the bone right above the knuckle? There's a gentle gradient leading over those lobes going from tip to hand, but just a big round edge going from hand to tip. Smooth ride going one way, bumpy ride going the other way. The skin bunching is part of the answer. When you pull your finger skin toward the hand, there isn't any extra skin to pull from your finger tips. You stretch the skin tight, so you're basically dealing with a thin layer of skin stretched tight against the bone. On the other hand (wink) you're hand has got a lot of extra skin that doesn't allow the skin to be pulled taught going the other way, instead the skin travels with the ring and bunches up under those bony lobes from the bird picture.
The eyes are trying to focus on an image that is not actually out of focus, it is just that the brain cant make sense of the image. The brain recognizes several familiar patterns, but cant quite focus on one at the time.
This is known as 'semantic satiation' and there isn't much academic literature on this specific effect from my brief research that I did just now. However, from what I can tell it's related to other effects so I'll base my explanation around an understanding of those as well as a bit of research. As a disclaimer, I'm a medical student with an interest in neuroscience, but I am not a neuroscientist and my interpretation of the literature is limited by this. It occurs through a similar process to not noticing background noises after a while or not noticing the frames of your glasses even though they're in your vision. When a nerve fires over and over again, eventually it begins to be habituated and doesn't release as much neurotransmitter to the next neuron. In *very* oversimplified, ELI5 terms, the nerve becomes "tired" and stops firing as much. So a nerve's ability to communicate with the next nerve along a sequence of nerves is reduced. When you stare at a word for ages or hear it repeated over and over, a complicated pattern of neurons in your brain fires constantly that leads to recognition of the word. This involves going from the visual information, processing it, to the language centres, etc. Eventually, every time you look at the word the neurons in this complicated pathway fire less and less until the pathway that leads to the recognition of that word is not being stimulated enough to allow normal recognition. It then begins to look or sound "strange". I hope I explained that well enough - if you have any questions I'll do my best to answer!
Water [has both *cohesion* -- wants to stick to itself -- and *adhesion* -- wants to stick to other things]( URL_0 ). So, water is a fluid, and wants to stick to itself as a single object, which makes it somewhat slippery. But, it also wants to stick to you, and anything else it touches, on a small scale, It's how drops stick to the wall in the shower, and you can press something light and smooth against something else smooth with just a little water in between and it will stick. So, on a large scale your tires can slip on a wet road because the water is forming a barrier between the tire and the road through cohesion, but on a small scale like rubbing skin together, the water is trying to stick and causes friction.
Doctor here. Essentially when you lie on one particular side, you put pressure on bony prominences, and this pressure, actually makes it more difficult for blood to penetrate the skin on the pressure areas. That feeling is essentially your body telling you that your tissues under pressure are suffocating. You then instinctively move and think nothing of it. However, this can be a problem in patients with reduced mobility (cerebral palsy, motor neurone disease, even just frail elderly patients) and these patients need to be physically turned in order to prevent nasty pressure sores.
A ton of factors contribute. In my opinion, the ability to project is what best determines a powerful voice. Ever watch Sister Act? Whoopi puts her hand on the young soprano's diaphragm and the tremulous becomes clear and strong.
Everyone is different, so some may never have to clean out their ears and some have to regularly. I get large buildups in my ears of I do not clean them regularly. I used to think it was normal until I met my former SO. She never had to clean out her ears ever and her 'wax' looked different from mine. The oils my body produces mix with the wax in my ears and makes it thicker. My doctor would usually have to flush out my ears every so often because my ears would get infected every year or so. I never used Q-tips because I knew it could impact the wax and make it worse. I ended up getting a simple cleaning kit from the store with drops and a bulb syringe. A few drops in the ear then flush out with warm water. Haven't had any problems since then and it seems to work great! I clean my ears in the shower. When the shower is hot I just get my index finger and wipe around. I don't have any problems Or, if you are in India, you could pay an ear cleaner on the street to do it for you: URL_0 I get lots of earwax sometimes, to the point where i can suddenly lose 40%+ of my hearing simply by breathing and having earwax block the entire canal, i usually rub my ears over with soap to get through particularly bad times until i feel true skin texture instead of waxy/oilyness, then i dip my pinky's fingertip in about half its fingerprints length starting as far towards the back of my head moving forward not inward, sort of forming a light suction effect that i very precisely control the intensity of because hey its suction and it shouldnt hurt. Actually i dont do the suction part in the shower often just because of having better control and stability sitting on a toilet, but on bad earwax days where my hearing is impaired it'd bring out a glop of oil about the size of three cooked rice or maybe 2/3rds of a plump large sunflower seed. I dunno, it seems to have always worked for me, i haven't had an ear problem I've had to really look into. It's not even really a habit, just when my ears feel a bit off i manually remove the wax.
our body is engineered to save energy where we can best... that means shutting down some organs to preserve energy. mental problems soon follow
When you sleep, your muscles lose tone and fluid tends to pool along your back. Stretching helps to massage fluid gently back into the normal position. Also, your muscles protect themselves from over-extension by inhibiting the nerve impulses as they approach their limit.
Using cameras to capture the light and film to record the images. You do know that cameras existed for quite a while prior to the 90s, right? The technology for cameras may have improved but they still work by pointing them at what you want a picture of and pressing a button. I'm not really sure what you mean. Ultrasound has been around for a really long time. This is the classic imaging technique. Relatively small scopes for filming have been around since the 20s.
When you haven't been told how to think about life yet and all you think about is the interpretation of your situation creativity tends to much easier. Adults are bound by the limits of what they believe is possible and tend to think within that box of reality. Children are able to think outside of the box without feeling like what they are thinking is wrong/stupid.
Listen well, brother of the Path of Iron. Learn our sacred pantheon, that they may aid you on your way to greater gains. Brodin - The All-spotter, king of the gods. Guardian of all things and people swole. His altar is the sacred squat rack, and it is unholy heresy to perform bicep curls therein. Broseidon - Lord of the Brocean, and keeper of the great protein shake seas. Accept his blessings before/after your sacred worship sessions to attain greater gains. Brosiris - The god of rest days. He teaches us the wisdom of greater gains through necessary recovery periods. Heed his message well, lest you overtrain and lose your swole. Absbrodite - The goddess of beauty, and as such the lady mistress of all mirin' the sacred gains. Bropollo - The brother of Brodin, the watchful eye who spots. Bror (or Tore) - The son of Brodin, it was he who first taught the Way of Swole to mankind. It is said that his barbell, Swölnir, is so heavy none but he can lift it. Broki - The trickster god, who tries ever to lead you to the path of delusionary swole and false gains. His followers are a cult known as the Gains Goblins - they are all the people and things that would have you stop your sacred worship at the Iron Temple and tempt you away from the Path of Swole. He is also the god of crossfit and synthol. Beware, brother, lest this trickster snatch you in his claws and bear ye forth to the lands without swole. Heed these teachings, brother, and attain the best of your ability in this life that ye may be awaited in Swolhalla, where you will lift forever, mighty and huge. Wheymen. From the r/swoleacceptance info block: "Brodin does not rack weights that we cannot lift. Brodin does not rack weights that we cannot lift. Our philosophy is simple: embrace what is swole and strive to make the world a more swole place. We are often bombarded with the "ideal," and the vast majority of both women and men, do not measure up, regardless of their swole. We all suffer from a lack of perfection in symmetry and strength and in comparison to those with great genetics. And we all deserve to feel good about ourselves and comfortable in our swole. We welcome bodies of all shapes, sizes, abilities, and disabilities- as long as you're swole or on the path to swole. We are about accepting yourself right now, swole." Do not fall for the lies and misguidances of Broki & his many agents, do not stray from the path of the great all-spotter. Brodin is the great all-spotter, who in his glory, allows us to hoist the greatest of weight and make the greatest of gains. It is a place for fellow followers of the great all-spotter, Brodin. To share our experiences of victory in his name and with the treachery we suffer at the hands of Broki and his minions. Wheyman. [In all seriousness, Is this subreddit real?]( URL_0 ) The night is swole and full of protein. Wheymen. It started out as a parody of the fat-acceptance movement. In /r/swoleacceptance people posted ironic stories about being oppressed in their lives because of their muscular physique ('swole' meaning muscular/ripped) in much the same way as people on fat-acceptance subs do. But it kind of evolved over time as members started making jokes about weight-lifting being a kind of religion, and eventually Lore was established, along with its own terminology. The whole thing was a joke, but it's actually quite a nice sub where people who are into weight training support each-other in a light hearted way. Brodin (based on the Norse god Odin) is the god to which we pray. He guides us on the Iron Path (weight training) towards a state of perfect Swolyness. We pray (lift) in the Iron Temple (gym). But sometimes we are tempted from the path by Broki (based on the Norse trickster god, Loki) who wants to stop us from progressing and steal our gainz (muscle growth). Sometimes we talk of being "swole of heart" which means that while a muscular physique is, of course, the most important thing in life - it is important to be strong on the inside too, and develop muscular feels. We end our prayers with the interjection, Wheymen (a pun on amen - many of us use whey powder to supplement our protein intake) - a call to Brodin to help protect our gains, and give us the grace to help others along the Iron Path, even though they may be weak or overweight. So if you wish to join us, Brodin commands us to help you and we will gladly offer encouragement and advice. As a Swoldier emissary I will take it upon myself to speak the common tongue to aid thee. The sub as I understand started as one mentioned as a reply, in jest, at fat acceptance. However it has grown and very much become a sub about lifting for the sake of just lifting and being bigger and being with others that accept that. As you might have noticed every talks in a weird, medieval like, way and talk about a made up religion. This seems to be started as part of the joke. Now however posts range from just plain foolishness, to swole acceptance posts of old, to people really wanting to talk about issues with lifting. It's all done in this tone because it always keeps the atmosphere light and interesting. I find it far more welcoming and uplifting than r/fitness because of this. I haven't been a long time lifter but for me this sub helps me get out and lift on really rough days. If you ever need translation for our weird verbiage I can link you to a thread I had where we culminated many of our phrases. I hope this helped. May Brodin bless you with much in the gains of wisdom and knowledge this day. WHEYMEN! Yea, though I farmers walk through the valley of Cross fit, I shall fear no evil; For thou art with me, Brodin, thine iron and thine gains comfort me. Brodin is our Lord and savior of the Iron, the mighty all-spotter who looks upon our prayers in the iron temples and rewards the faithful with glorious gains. [Swoleacceptance started as a send-up of the Tumblrina HAES community]( URL_1 ) and these classic type posts show up from time to time. [The current posts are full of body building humor]( URL_2 ) and [ a cult surrounding the mythology of Brodin and the Valkyries vs Broki and the CardioBunnies]( URL_0 ) Wheymen. [Here's something that will help you understanding of Brodin, Swoley Writ, and the Iron Path.]( URL_0 )
don't let the name 'street drug' confuse you. these are sophisticated global pharmaceutical businesses that just happen to produce products that are illegal in some places. that changes their distribution methods and increases profit, but apart from that they are like any other multinational company
If I remember correctly that is where they attach to the muscles to transfer oxygen and haul away waste.
There's a fair amount of Canadian currency circulating in the US as well. For the most part, small change is inter-changeable between the two nations and there no exchange rate applied when making a purchase. But if you insist, yes, you can absolutely exchange it at a bank. Just note some banks may have minimums, charge a fee or direct you to a kiosk (particularly for coinage) which will charge you an even larger fee (yay fees!). Alternately you may be able to deposit it has cash into your Canadaland bank account at a lower rate. Canada and the US share the largest unguarded border in the world so things can get around pretty fast. Historically, the currencies have been more or less equal with goods costing approximately the same amount of dollars and the coins all look pretty similar as well so they tend to get mixed up. No one really bothers correcting or exchanging them because it's so much of a hassle for something that isn't necessary. As someone who works for a government agency in Canada, I can assure you we accept American coins as our own. If even government agencies don't bother with differentiating, there really isn't much point for civilians to differentiate them. Also, most of the Canadian population lives near the border so even if we wanted to separate them, we would just go across the border and spend them instead of getting them exchanged at a bank and paying fees. Here is the actual answer. You *cannot* exchange USD coins at Canadian financial institutions. The reason, most likely, is because it is expensive to handle, process, ship and be compliant with coins. And I'm talking now about CAD coins, imagine adding USD coins on top of that? Forget it, the banks would be paying big bucks to handle USD coins. Paper bills are the only accepted USD currency at Canadian financial institutions. Intria and Symcor do not handle or process USD coins. If you have a lot of USD coins, make sure to spend it next down you go to the states and make sure you never comeback with any.
Say a website is using an SSL certificate. That certificate is just something that says something like "I am reddit and nobody can impersonate me". Now obviously SSL certificates websites offer up can simply be copied, so to authenticate themselves, the certificate includes a public key, and they have their private key which isn't shared, and the keys are mathematically linked, but the one can't be derived from the other (feasibly) they can only be created together, and the odds of you randomly generating an already existing key is miniscule, and when something is encrypted with one key, the other can decrypt it, and vice versa. So what's to stop websites from simpy generating their SSL certificates? Nothing, so to actually prove that the website you're connecting to is the real deal, they have their certificates signed by a higher authority, and you automatically trust that authority, even though you have no idea because it comes preloaded in your browser. It's like government issued IDs, if someone shows you their driver's license, you have reasonable cause to believe their age on that card is the truth. The certificate authority signs other people's certificates with their own private key, which is also not shared, but can be verified with their public key. So how does signing work? It's basically hashing and encrypting put together. Hashing is a function where you take a block of data and trim it down to a unique result that it isn't feasible to find a different block of data that returns the same result, so hashing can't (generally) be broken. Then it works like this, websites have their certificate, the certificate authority hashes it, and then encrypts the hash with their private key, which in turn spits out the digital signature Now when you connect to a website, they serve you their signed certificate, which includes their public key and their digital signature which was signed by the certificate authority's private key, and you have the certificate authority's public key already preloaded in your browser. You take their certificate, hash it yourself, and then you take their digital signature, decrypt it with the certificate authority's public key. If they both match, then they're legit. Now this only proves that the website you're connecting to has a certificate that's correctly signed by a certificate authority. To prove that it is actually them you're connecting to, they send a verifiable block of data signed with their own private key, which you test with their public key. So at the end you have reasonable cause to believe that the website you're connecting to is who they say they are, and their story is confirmed by a higher authority at the same time. At this point you know you're actually connecting to the website you're trying to connect. So how is any further data you exchange protected? You generate a key, this time a symmetric key that's used for both encryption and decryption. You encrypt it with the website's public key and send it, and the website decrypts it with their private key, which only they can. This key can't be compromised because you confirmed the website's certificate (which contains their public key), and only that website can decrypt anything you encrypt with their public key, so at the end both you and the website have a key that was encrypted during transmission and it's used to encrypt any data you exchange from this point on. Which brings another question, after the certificate is verified why can't we just continue encrypting stuff with their public key? Why do we have to generate a symmetric key and send it to the server? Because while you'll be able to send data securely to the server, the server in turn can't because anything they encrypt with their public key will be readable by anyone, and also because the algorithm used for the public/private key encryption is very slow, so it's only used at the start, after a which a faster algorithm is used. What algorithm to use is decided during the initial phase by both the browser and server telling each other their capabilities. For some real world example, let's take reddit. If you click on the top left green locked key sign, you should be able to see reddit's certificate, and that it's signed by DigiCert Inc. If you go into more detail and view it, you should be able to see reddit's public key, and their digital signature signed by DigiCert Inc. Edit: Minor correction, thanks /u/a_2 Edit2: Added another reason for using symmetric keys for encryption, arguable the main reason. It's like passing encrypted notes back and forth to a friend in class. You use a cipher so the teacher or other students cannot read the message. Except your 3rd friend who is really good at math, created the cipher and is the only one who can verify if the note that you received was actually sent from your friend. It should be noted that you can trust this 3rd friend to verify the notes correctly because you guys have been best friends basically forever, and everyone else trusts him too because he is so trustworthy. Edit: As a follow-up to your other questions, SSL is technically crackable, it's just not feasible to do so because with modern SSL, each packet would take days or weeks to crack. So the more feasible thing to do is setup a proxy server that intercepts SSL traffic, decrypts it, records it, and re-encrypts it the same way so the receiver never knows it was intercepted in the first place. Businesses do this to spy on their employees encrypted traffic, and the NSA basically does this at major internet relay points so they can spy on everybody. SSL just makes it so the average computer nerd can't spy on you, you have to have money to do it. This may no longer be the case, but this style of encryption was explained to me like this. Imagine you have a message and you want to send it to your mate. You have a box with the message inside. You add a padlock to the box and lock it, then send the box to your mate. Your mate then adds his own padlock to the box and sends the box back to you, now with both locks locking it. You remove your padlock from the box and send the box to your mate (now only with their padlock locking the box). He removes his lock, opens the box and reads the message "FU MFER!" So, you've exchanged a message, no one in between was able to intercept it, and neither of you had to give each other sensitive stuff like keys and passwords. Replace the box with a packet of data (or a frame or whatever the term the network bods are using these days) and the padlocks with encryption and it's sort of the same thing.
Lower frequencies travel further and pass through obstacles better. Meaning a slightly deeper voice like a low baritone or bass will be carried more. I know your pain, my whispers can be heard from a fair distance.
Yes. To the best of our knowledge, quantum mechanical processes are truly random! Let's back up a little: The most common interpretation of Quantum Mechanics - the Copenhagen Interpretation - states, that the wave function of a system only collapses into a defined state when it is being measured. Before that, the wavefunction is a in a superposition of classically mutually exclusive states. Quantum Mechanics is a probabilistic theory. That means, it cannot predict how a particle will act, it only predicts the probabilities of acting in a certain way. To learn more about determinism vs. probabilism, click [here]( URL_0 ). When QM was first proposed, many people - most notably Einstein - thought it was absurd to think that the universe was not inherently deterministic. Hence Einstein's famous exclamation:"God does not play dice". Thus, the opponents of this probabilsim came up with several solutions. One of them was, that Quantum Mechanics was deterministic, but we simply couldn't see the variables governing the outcome. This theory is called hidden local variable theory. * "Local", because those variables obeyed special relativity. That means, faster than light communication is not possible. * "Hidden", because we couldn't see those variables, but they are still there. Even if we can't see them. This concept is also called "realism" because things are "real" even if we are not looking. John Bell, a famous physicist, devised an experiment to test this local hidden variable theory. To learn more of this experiment, click [here]( URL_1 ). The result of this experiment was, that the local hidden variable theory was wrong. Thus, either localism, or realism (or both) had to be wrong. If localism were wrong, the theory of relativity would be wrong as well. The theory of relativity, however, works exceptionally well, so most people tend to see localism as correct. Thus, realism - the concept that things are the way they are, even if we are not looking - had to be wrong. That means, particles are actually in an undetermined state before the measurement. So is a pair of entangled particles that is spatially separated. Let's assume a pair with entangled spin. If one particle is measured to be in the *spin up* state with respect to an axis, the other has to be in the *spin down* state with respect to the same axis. However, up until the measurement, both particles are in both states simultaneously. Since angular momentum has to be conserved, if we measure one particle's spin with respect to the x-Axis, and the measurement yields *spin down*, the other particle instantly has to collapse in the state *spin up*. Thus, one particle has to tell the other particle the result of the measurement, in order for angular momentum to be conserved. And this "transmission" happens instantaneously, no matter how far the two particles are apart. Yet, this is not, in fact, a paradox. No information has been transmitted, so the theory of special relativity is not violated. Yes. There are truly random quantum-mechanical processes. That's very different from algorithms for random numbers, these are at best psuedo-random.
If you imagine there is a big flat surface with some of those cones you use in p.e. on it spread out(these are atoms). if you roll tennis balls (electron/beta radiation) along the ground most will go straight because they will not hit the cone(atom) however a few will roll over the side of the cone and be deflected (or change path) slightly (this is because the electrons of the atoms are repelling the electrons that are being fired at them as they are both negative) and some tennis balls will hit the centre of the cone and therefore come straight back (this is if they are repelled head on). This all implies that the majority of an atom is empty space as electrons can travel through them and also that there are negatively charged particles orbiting and positive nucleus where the mass of the atom is concentrated. This disproves the plum pudding model (of electrons being scattered within the nucleus) and proves the atomic model (that there is a positive nucleus orbited by electrons.)
Oh, I know that pain! It's the pain you should ask your doctor about instead of internet strangers. But seriously, even if there were a doctor on ELI5, it is impossible to diagnose someone over the internet. If it feels like something is wrong, talk to your doctor. I think i know what youre talking about although it happens to me very rarely if i turn to look at something really fast. Its not like a normal neck strain or anything like that. It literally is like a pop, you feel it instantly. It feels very warm and tingly...very uncomfortable but it goes away quickly. Ive always wondered what it is as well but it just doesnt happen frequently enough for me to care that much! This is caused most often by a pinched nerve in your head/neck. Most likely you have some sort of poor posture that will cause you to feel this from time to time, and simply fixing your posture should remedy this issue. This is usually nothing serious and is quite common in young adults and teens age 12-20 but is still possible even outside of that age range. If you do fix your posture and this issue persists, you should consult a doctor. Having a pinched nerve for too long without redressing it will cause damage further down the road and can lead to severe chronic pain. Lastly, be sure you stretch on a daily basis. Do some neck rolls, back twists, etc. This combined with improved posture can help quite a bit. Source: Mosby's medical dictionary and Thieme's atlas of anatomy (I took information from both)
When you apply/sign up for it you generally give them rights to access your medical records. They can basically get records from any doctor you have seen. And if they find out you didn't disclose something in the first place then they will just deny your claims.
No. First there's the high transportation cost. Then there's the fact that it doesn't just "disappear" as harmful chemicals and pollutants are released into the atmosphere. It's really not much different than incinerating garbage locally just with a much higher transportation cost. Trash isn't a significant space problem, it's just that no one likes living near landfills and they cost more the further away they are. And of all the places that generate trash, most places aren't close enough to a volcano to make that an economical option. Volcanoes are also unpredictable, and not terribly active in that there aren't too many open pools of lava sitting around in the world like they are in movie-land. It would also be terribly dangerous to approach one to dump the trash in. And there is nothing fast about getting trash from your house to the nearest active volcano to you, which I predict is probably very far from you unless you live in Hawaii or Iceland, or along parts of the Pacific rim in South America or Asia. We do have a thing like a local, economic volcano, called an incinerator, which burns trash and generates electricity, but people tend not to like these things, either. Near me one was built and shut down weeks before beginning operation due to local complaints. Rocks are dense, as you may well know. They're heavy. They sink. They hurt if one is chucked at you. * If you went to the trouble of building a ramp up a volcano... * And spent the money to make it sturdy enough that it wouldn't collapse if the volcano behaved unpredictably... * And you spent the money to ship all the garbage, say in the united states, to your nearest active volcano... * And you spent all the money to bribe however many thousands of dump truck operators it would take to take all of the world's garbage up however many of these few, accessible, infrastructure-ready volcanoes you had built, 24/7... **Then** You'd never have enough transportation to get all the garbage into the volcanoes. **and** Like I said, rocks are dense. So is molten rock. Now you have a pile of burning garbage sitting on top of lava, polluting the atmosphere. No. Apart from the massive effort required to bring thousands of tonnes of trash up to a mountain top, it's dangerous to throw stuff that contains water, or any other liquid really, inside volcanoes. [See here.]( URL_0 )
Every person has different bacteria in their skin that creates their own scent. Combine yours with your SO and it will a create a seemingly unique scent.
From my understanding, this is due to REM sleep cycles. When you sleep, your body goes through 90 minute Rapid Eye Movement cycles. Near the middle of these cycles, you go into deep sleep, where most of your dreams are. So when waking up after a full night, you have already done 5 or 6 otr 7 of these cycles and dont seem so disoriented. When taking a nap, if you nap for perhaps only 60 minutes, you are waking up in the middle (deep sleep), causing you to feel very disoriented. This is why you commonly hear "90 min powernap" becuase you are waking up after completing a full cycle and not in during one.
If two atoms have the same number of protons, that's what makes them the same element. We identify elements primarily by the number of protons, as that's what makes them what they are. The number of electrons in a given element atom dictates whether or not it is charged, but electrons are much more fluid than protons, so will change from instant to instant. The number of neutrons in an atom can alter slightly within the definition of an element. For example deutrium is an isotope of hyrdogen consisting of a proton, a neutron and an electron. Because it has one proton, it's still considered hyrdogen, and can still form compounds in the same way that "normal" hydrogen can. Looking at it the other way, Deutrium is esentially another element with the same number of protons as hydrogen, but as a result it behaves so much like hydrogen, that it's called hydrogen. Atoms are classified into elements based on how they react chemically. This was done well before we even knew that protons existed. Later we discovered that the number of protons in an atom determines almost everything about its chemical behavior, so all of the atoms of each element have the same number of protons.
This is usually through muscle inflammation; inflammation damages the fibers of a muscle. This causes muscles to be weak by interfering with the ability of the muscles to contract.
A deep space radio wave is just what the name describes - a radio wave coming from deep space (one has recently been pinpointed to come from another galaxy some 3 billion light years away, which I assume is why you're asking this question). They're short, they're rare, they're mysterious, and nobody knows exactly what causes them - but knowing which galaxy sent one out helps us determine that. As for how they affect us as a species, they don't right now, and they likely won't ever, really. It's just one of space's mysteries and we like solving those mysteries - and maybe we'll get some new insight on physics that allows us to build all sorts of crazy shit. On the other hand, maybe it's "just" a remnant of a star crossing the event horizon of the supermassive black hole at a galaxy's center, which won't be very practically applicable at all. On the other hand, maybe it's a giant planet-destroying space laser, and the more of these we keep seeing, the more fucked we are. But it's probably not that.
But behaviorally animals can be more or less likely to domesticate. Wolves, for example are social animals and so integrating into a mutually beneficial situation with another species is more likely. Cats can be, too, but I don't know if that was true of the domesticated cat's ancestors. Cats are very opportunistic, so that may have been enough. Also, in the domestication of livestock, disposition played a role. Cattle, pigs, and sheep were native to eurasia and easier to domesticate. The americas had bison, moose, deer, etc that were nearly impossible to domesticate. This contributed to more nomadic lifestyles, especially in North America, which had a major impact on the cultures of the people and their resistance to disease. When the Europeans, who had been exposed to livestock and their diseases, came to the Americas it spelled biological disaster for the natives. Edit: After reading some follow up comments I wanted to clarify. One, I'm not a historian, so have not studied the nenative population trends in depth. I do know, however, that europeans brought disease and that the natives had no immunity to them, resulting in sigificant death. I think Guns, Germs, and Steele covers a lot of this.
From what I've seen on some Linus videos, many servers use 10GBit but the cost is so high that most consumers can't really justify the premium cost.
Basically it's your 'fight or flight' mode going into overdrive. The psychology is a bit more complicated, but essentially because of a mental condition such as a phobia or panic disorder, your brain decides that there is an immediate and very serious threat to you even though there isn't. Your brain then tells your body to prepare to either fight or run away. This involves the release of adrenaline and the stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system. Your heart rate goes way up, you start breathing much faster and you sweat. The fast breathing (hyperventilation) is quite important in a panic attack. Your body is preparing you for the sudden strenuous exercise involved in fighting or running away, but of course you don't actually end up doing any strenuous exercise. This means that you expel loads of carbon dioxide out through your lungs without much of it being produced from exercise. A loss of a lot of carbon dioxide changes the pH of the blood, and this can cause some of the other symptoms of a panic attack, such as lightheadedness and dizziness. You may then interpret the combination of all of the symptoms as "feeling like you're going to die". Several months ago, I witnessed a phenomenon which can only be described as a "chain panic attack". Friend #1 had a panic attack which induced a panic attack in friend #2 and so on until it caused panic attacks for 5 different people. Has anyone else seen this before? Because I find it very difficult to comprehend. if you want a first person explanation of how it feels: I get light-headed for one, my pulse quickens and I become very aware of my heart beat, both in my chest and I can also hear it in my ears very clearly. Shortness of breath also happens. Like normally, breathing happens automatically and without thought. When having a panic attack, I feel a greater difficulty in breathing and I have to sometimes exert conscious effort to ensure that I keep breathing. For an explanation of why it occurs, can happen for any number of situations where a person's brain has flagged as maybe a situation appropriate for fight or flight. For me, personally, it was in response to seeing someone from my past who had caused me considerable emotional pain and anguish.
There are no such people. Many people, however, can't remember their dreams. Use the Search function here in ELI5 to see many posts on not remembering dreams. > If dreams are brought on from focusing thought while you sleep, They are not. Dreams are a side-effect of your brain processing memories. There's no "focus" on anything, nor any direction. Nor are the dreams themselves a benefit, though people tend to make up a meaning for them. That process happens to *everyone* who is not suffering from a severe mental disorder. Not everyone will remember their dreams, though.
Advertising is something that is generally outsourced to companies who specialize in it. It is very specialized, they are the experts at it, and they are the ones who do it. Sometimes they will keep some of the analytics in house, but generally at a minimum the creative and such is outsourced to the "experts" (but they may outsource parts (or all) of the analytics too!) Its very uncommon for large or even smaller companies to have their in-house advertising department, or at least one that could hold their own against a company who's business is advertising. But one last thing -- remember "advertising" is not the same as "marketing". And companies generally keep marketing completely inhouse
From the experience of a musician, it's always there. It never leaves. But then again, we want it there. There's no "Maybe if I complete the song instead of turning it off in between, it will stop." I guess we have to always make sure it's something we like. It can be bad though, like when you are talking to people. They're telling about their petty, melodramatic life and you're zoning out thinking about that sick part you just heard, muttering the drum rudiment under your breath. Just a note: if you are interested in music, the brain, the psychology and neuroscience behind their interaction, I suggest reading Oliver Sacks book Musicophilia. It's really really interesting and will probably teach you things about the interaction of the brain and music you never even thought of. Really great book and really interesting for anyone who is into music. Hey, I have this too, if we are talking about really 24/7 here. Most answers you get are probably from people who think you talk about ear worms, I had that problem at least when I tried to explain it in real life. I've since been to a few neurologists, and they are all very interested as hearing music in your head truly 100% of the time seems to be very rare. I was offered to participate in some studies, but they all take at least 10 days an I can't really be bothered to disappear from life for over a week for basically nothing, as I was assured the condition is not dangerous (no tumour or anything). I don't recall source but your brain will repeat songs because it's trying to figure out what comes next. Listening to the song in its entirety is said to fix this, i.e. help your brain figure out what's next. I'll find some sources if anyone's interested! If you're talking about getting a song stuck in your head, I was always under the impression that is happens because neurons that just fired are prone to fire again because the physiology of the neuron. It's been a while since I heard this, but I believe it's an ion channel that separates when it fires, but when it happens the separation isn't as complete as a non-fired channel, which makes the neuron prone to refiring again. Theory is that tendency to refire can maybe explain why you get a song stuck in your head. Well humming, singing and other things (like stroking your hair) are self-soothing activities. People do it all the time, and don't realize that they are humming to a song in their head to keep them calm. When you are panicked - are you singing a song? No. But doing the dishes or in the shower or sitting at your desk at work, you may start to hum or sing a song in your head to calm yourself (not calm yourself from a panicked state, but just soothe yourself). Personally I do this to avoid thinking about, well, just about anything else. Allowing a song to occupy the background of the mind limits the amount of random thoughts which can trigger anxiety and panic. People who are less prone to being overly anxious seem to do this less often in my experience. The Simpsons did a pretty good example of how different types can react to being alone with their thoughts: URL_0 Because the brain is like an echo chamber that can be filled with silent sounds. It is not electrically/mechanically perfect, and so there are little inklings of sound even when none really exists. And then you have the individual perceiving it all, shifting minute amounts of attention to this or that within the inklings... If you're familiar with a song that's even remotely similar to how the inklings fit into your perception, it can bubble all the way up into that song's chorus or bridge. TLDR: you listen to so much pop music that even silence reminds you of songs you know Your brain is addicted to stimulus. When you are bored and not receiving enough stimulus, your brain creates it. You know those zen moments of emptiness that you hear about being so difficult to reach, where you have to empty your mind and become one with the universe? Turns out, that's the majority of your day. And you spend those moments of emptiness trying to fill them with popsongs so your brain can get its fix. To be quite clear, you're just talking about yourself. People also report that when they think of ideas, they do so with an "inner voice" which talks. This is extremely common, but in primitive cultures like hunter-gatherer societies, it just doesn't happen. Instead, in these primitive cultures, words thought of it ones head are interpreted as being from ancestors or spirits, and thought is done in other ways, like with spacial objects, and not with words. I may hypothesize that in these primitive populations we might also find less instances of people having music "playing" in their minds, though of course it may still be common, it's just a guess. The takeaway I think is that we hear in our heads what we have already heard, and so it mirrors that. Your brain is in a constant flux. And your neurons fire back and forth. In there, the paths your electrical impulse take. It transverse a memory of a song? Or that tasty burger you ate yesterday. Even that dream you forgot 10years ago? The memories lie in a specific pattern. If you for different reasons manage to activate it. You experience it. Remember this though. Experience something from outside, is far from the memory you are left with. Its only the most parts about the experience that stood out that you will remember. Because as i said before, memories are the etching of patterns with neurons. And this etching will only be in context to how strong this experience is. And lastly, the strength of an experience isnt the same as feeling a strong feeling. Its more, the strength of the experience in contrast to normative expeirence of the same situation. So wheb you remember things from studying, you know you learnt something because you feel and know the information being etched. Its lile that expeirence just wanderd from the outside into your consciousness. You didnt get an orgasm like feeling. Just a strong relaxing feeling of a puzzle falling together. Intense? nope. strong? yes. Oliver Sacks, in his books about brain injuries, mentions patients with recurrent musical loops constantly playing in their heads. Sometimes it would be music they haven't heard since childhood. One man, with a background in music, with dementia couldn't remember even how to dress himself because he would lose his train of thought. They found however that if he hummed a tune (his memory of music was unaffected) he could follow tasks even if he wasn't fully conscious of it.
Your phone can use a combination of barometer, accelerometer, and GPS to determine your change in elevation over time as well as whether it's through being lifted or by stepping. The accelerometer is key, here, because it can determine acceleration and in what direction, so it will measure a single period of acceleration until the elevator reaches a steady speed, and then constant graduation in elevation without further activity. Walking up stairs consists of several consecutive thrusts of acceleration, one for each step. The motion is distinctive and can be differentiated from an elevator. And you can't trick the thing by walking around in an elevator because your upward velocity is constant, so there's no vertical acceleration as you step about horizontally.
Lots of nerve endings on the lips and tongue, to which you're applying a (relatively) gentle, warm, soft stimulus. So it does feel good on a purely physical level. More than that, though, kissing is extremely gratifying on a psychological/emotional level. The knowledge that someone (whom you presumably like and feel fond of, at least a little) *wants* to be kissing you is a confidence boost and a turn-on in and of itself. So that makes you more engaged and invested in the moment, which makes your partner feel good, so they return that extra attention to you, and so on. It's a positive feedback loop. Edit: Added "confidence boost". I read that kissing in general is pleasurable because it is similar to kiss-feeding, where parent animals feed their babies pre-chewed or pre-digested food. From an evolutionary perspective. From 1:30 in this video, for a few minutes, it is discussed: URL_0 I never thought the frenching sensation itself was that pleasurable, but more the promise of what was in store.
Your brain does not taste, see, feel, hear,smell anything. Your brain is a blob of jelly in a cramped and dark skull. Your sensory organs (eyes, ears, nose, tongue, skin) convert stimuli originating from outside of your body such as light falling on your retina, pressure on your skin, odorant molecules from food being inhaled, into ELECTRICAL IMPULSES. Your brain then interprets these impulses in specific areas of your brain (each part receives input from a particular sensory organ) and your brain translates that into the perception of "This smells like coffee", "this tastes like coffee", "This looks like coffee", "This cup is hot" etc. That being said, your sensory organs can only generate a finite amount of electrical impulses in a period of time and the strength of the impulse is constant. In other words a loud noise doesn't generate a stronger voltage impulse in your brain, it just fires off an extremely high frequency of the same strength impulse very very very quickly. A strong stimulus like a BRIGHT light or a LOUD noise generates an extremely rapid burst of electrical impulses and if the sound or light is sustained for too long, the cells producing the impulses literally die. This is called "excitotoxicity". Meaning the output of the cell is greater than it can handle and literally overloads. Loud noises and bright lights can kill your senses physically, so your body knows this and as soon as a bright light occurs your instinct is to look away or cover your eyes to protect your eyes. You wouldn't know bright light kills the complex cells in your eyes unless you were educated, so your body just makes it simple on you and makes it PAINFUL because pain is very convincing in making you protect yourself from the thing causing it. So the bright light isn't causing the pain, your body sense the bright light will be too much to handle and the pain receptors in your eyes tell your brain to look the heck away/cover your eyes before damage occurs. If the light is TOO intense, you might suffer damage before you can even react (like in the case of shining a laser directly into your eye, or during an explosion that destroys your hearing in a burst before you can cover your ears) I am by no means a biology expert. My guess is going to be that the bright light, as with any light levels, causes your iris to contract, attempting to adjust to the light level, but they can't close completely, causing muscular strain in your eye. Or maybe it's exactly the same as looking at the sun, that it damages your nerve endings.
Speak for yourself. Alarm clock goes off. I hear it for a few seconds, then am out like a light again for hours. I've been late many times to work. Can't seem to break the cycle of extreme blissful, tranquil sleep right about the time I'm supposed to get up. Edit: removed minor rant
Not all forms of mental illness are hereditary. For example some forms of schizophrenia are related to the COMT gene. However, there are 20+ other genes with different connections. It may turn out that schizophrenia is like "cancer", a bad generalization based on common symptoms for many different diseases. However, trauma isn't genetic. There may be a genetic sensitivity to some sorts of trauma, but that's hardly the same thing. Mental illness is very complicated, and any "one solution" explanation is wrong.
People with high credit scores are less likely to default and leave the lender with a defaulted loan People with low credit scores tend to not pay back the loan at all. It is better to go with the higher score person because you are more likely to get your money back. People with higher credit scores have proven themselves trustworthy with finances over time. A lender would rather get 100% of their investment back (even quickly) than risk getting little to nothing back from an untrustworthy borrower.
Sea ice is white, so it reflects a lot of radiation back into the atmosphere and into space where it can't be absorbed as heat. If it all melts, greenhouse warming effects can be compounded, resulting in even more CO2 being released by soil and methane clathrates, resulting in more greenhouse warming, resulting in more greenhouse gasses being released... it's a very negative cycle. The world is currently in a stage of the Milankovich cycle (the cycle that determines long-run average temperature, things like ice ages and such) where things *should* be cooling down... but the average global temperature, per-year, is rapidly rising in direct opposition to this. Regular seasonal variations in the amount of sea ice are common (it's winter in the northern hemisphere, so regionally more ice may form) but over time the amount of sea ice present is decreasing, and is currently at dangerously low levels and is continuing to decrease. Now for my personal tinfoil hat part: Some 'researchers' will buy into politicized 'facts' (read: fabrications) that the amount of sea ice is increasing on one particular day, so, to them, obviously climate change can't be real. There's that biased aspect to some 'studies,' (especially corporate-funded ones, don't trust a report on climate change sponsored by Exxon-Mobil) so you should be careful what climate studies you pay attention to.
Jesus what class is this? Sorry I can't really help; I'm as lost as you
There are a few theories. One is that children have less developed palates. Adults are able to appreciate the subtle and savory flavors of bitter foods. Kids dislike them because they can't taste the entire flavor profile, opting for simpler sweet foods. For adults, those sweet foods are overwhelming because they lack subtly. Another theory is that children crave sweets more because the body craves sugar when it's younger, at the point in development when humans need loads of diverse sugars. ^(Source: I read an article online a while ago, and everything on the internet is true, right?) [Article worth reading about this]( URL_0 ) Scientific evidence shows that children not only have a stronger preference for sugar than adults – but that sweet-tooth is hardwired from Day One. "We know that the newborn can detect sweet and will actually prefer sweeter solutions to less sweet ones. The basic biology of the child is that they don't have to learn to like sweet or salt. It's there from before birth," explains Julie Mennella of the Monell Chemical Senses Center. Unlike adults, who often find overly sugary things unpleasant, Mennella says kids are actually living in different sensory worlds than adults when it comes to basic tastes. "They prefer much more intense sweetness and saltiness than the adult, and it doesn't decrease until late adolescence. And we have some evidence they may be more sensitive to bitter taste," Mennella says. A reason for this may be that a preference for sweet, caloric substances during rapid growth may have given children as an evolutionary advantage when calories were scarce. That notion is supported by the fact that sugar doesn't just taste good to children -– it actually makes them feel good, too. Mennella's research has shown that sugar is a natural pain reliever in children, and many hospitals even put a sweet-tasting liquid in a baby's mouth during circumcisions or heel stick procedures to help lessen the pain. When researchers gave adults and children water mixed with various amounts of sugar, adults preferred sugar concentrations similar to that of a can of soda, while finding higher concentrations too sweet. By comparison, children preferred at least twice that concentration, and younger children had virtually no limit. "You can keep putting sugar in to the point where you can't dissolve it in the water anymore and they still like it," says Sue Coldwell, a researcher at the University of Washington who has studied kids and sweets. But there seems to be an age limit on the super-sized sugar preference. Coldwell and her colleagues suspected that sugar preferences changed during adolescence. They checked a bunch of indicators, like body image and hormones, and then they checked bone growth. They gave the sugar-water test to adolescents while simultaneously measuring a marker of bone growth in their urine. What they found was that kids who were still growing preferred sweets. Those whose growth had already stopped –- around age 15 or 16 — had taste preferences similar to adults. Exactly how this all works is still somewhat of a mystery, but Coldwell says that one important clue lies in the discovery that growing bones actually secrete hormones that can influence metabolism. Other well-known metabolic hormones like leptin and insulin have been shown to act on brain areas that control cravings and appetites, and even directly bind to the tongue, where they affect the preference for sweet tastes. Coldwell suspects that hormones from growing bones may be doing the same thing. In other words, it's not your kid's fault he raided the cookie jar – the hormones from his growing bones made him do it. "I don't know for sure, but I am very suspicious that the bones are somehow telling either the brain or the tongue that there is energy needed for their growth and signaling for that preference to increase," says Coldwell. That's not to say a kid can't overdo it. In a modern world of calorie overload and childhood obesity, cravings for sugar are no longer the evolutionary advantage they once might have once been. But if the goal is to get children to reduce their intake of sugar, researchers say understanding the biology behind their cravings is the first step. TL:DR - They think we're genetically programmed to want sugar and that our intense childhood craving for sugar stops when our bones are finished growing. The real question I have is why I, 35, haven't apparently discovered this. There are some sickeningly sweet artificial candies I don't like, but I'm a 2.5 spoons of sugar in my coffee kind of guy. It frankly *baffles* my mind that people not only drink but *choose* to drink dry red wines and pay a lot of money for the privilege. Same with most beers, which are bitter and utterly irredeemable to me. I once went to a wine tasting with several friends my age, and we all got flights of red wines. There was one that all of them were cooing on about how good it was, whereas to me it tasted just as bitter and tongue-numbing as the other reds. I honest-to-God thought they were fucking with me. One of those same friends frequently can't stand sweet drinks I like, such as a vanilla cream soda or similar. So strange to me. I'm only 20 but have definitely began to experience this. Hopefully someone has some answers! In nature the most common sweet foods are fruits, which evolved to be sweet so animals eat them and spread seeds. Most bitter flavors in our food are produced by alkaloids, many of which are poisonous. Therefore sweet foods are generally safer than bitter foods, because plants don't want to poison the animals that help them propagate. Since children are smaller than adults and therefore can be poisoned more easily it makes sense for them to avoid bitter foods and be drawn to sweeter and therefore safer foods chemically. It's a evolutionary thing. In the wild, bitter foods are often poisonous. Because children are often too young to have learned how to tell dangerous from safe plants, they rely on the taste of the plant. This is why they often highly prefer sweet foods I heard it was because as a child the sensory stuff that tastes when things are “too sweet” hasnt developed yet, and wont until early adulthood. You crave sugar as a kid because of bone growth URL_0
You are very much correct. Fresh water will burn, but an isotonic saline solution that's close to your blood plasma will soak in and rinse through quite comfortably. The burn from runny nose mucus was probably concentrated enough to be TOO salty, which hurts just as much. Or else your mucous membranes were inflamed, which makes them very tender, so it might have been strictly physical irritation. I personally prefer a Neti pot over a squirt-bottle, with a pinch of baking soda in the salt mix. One thing to remember with this is that it's not directly sluicing up into your sinuses. It's hydrating your nostrils, and creating a mild vacuum to gently suck the snot out. But it's also less of a feeling of "OH MY GOD I JUST STABBED MYSELF IN THE BACK OF MY EYES WITH A WATER JET." Your mileage may vary.
The savings booklet was just your personal record. The bank's record was the final say in the matter. Keeping track of deposits and withdrawals before electronics was easier because there was a paper trail and things happened more slowly. Electronic banking enabled a host of new scams and problems because transactions can happen very quickly and a person exploiting a weakness in the system can do so from a hidden location. The *only* problem with the old way was the mountains of paper that had to be maintained and gone-through if there was an audit. Occasionally banks would and probably still do get taken in by confidence scams...anyone who's been a cashier long enough has encountered someone asking for change for a 20, but phrases it as "can I get 2 fives and 2 tens for a $20?" Anyway, there was a reliance on Photo ID's, deposit slips, accounting ledgers, and the skill to use them, along with massive physical record stores, requiring two forms of ID for common banking tasks as recently as the late 90s, and knowing customers personally... There were a lot more local banks in the 1980s, when the national outfits started buying the smaller guys like crazy. Like typesetting, and page layout, and drafting, and a half a hundred other professions at least, before computers moved in and abstracted away the physical parts of lots of industries, humans were basically the computers, and pulled off remarkable feats of precision and physical accomplishment on a daily basis. In 20 years when robots start framing buildings and hanging drywall the same questions will be asked about the construction industry. To get an understanding and some fun you can read (incudes a few more scams and prison time in Sweden than the movie) or watch: Catch me if you can It is the story about [Frank Abagnale]( URL_0 ) who during 6 years ran several impressive confidence scams where he ran bank scams, pretended to be a pilot, a doctor, a lawyer and a Teaching assistant. He made millions of dollars before he got caught.
I'm not entirely sure, but I'd guess its similar to why people with arthritis can tell when a storm is coming hours or days before. The changing pressure in the atmosphere (caused by an approaching cold front or storm) interacts with the pressure in their bones and tendons and somehow makes them more sensitive to pain. I'd assume that changing your blood pressure also somehow makes you more sensitive to changing atmospheric pressure caused by the weather.
Yes, assuming the mirror existed in the past. If it sprang into existence right now, we wouldn't see anything from it for several years (n = 2 * distance in light years). Then, we would start seeing images from n years ago. From that point on, it would "track" earth in real time, offset by n years. This leaves out the issue of the size of the mirror, and planetary / galactic orbits and rotation. EDIT: This concept is well understood in astronomy, as it means that a star we see might not actually exist anymore and we just don't know yet. See this post for a simple example: URL_0 Yes. Of course, in practice it'd be easier said than done, because we currently have no good way of getting a good picture of something light years away. But yeah, assuming we had a good enough telescope and the mirror was big enough and so on, then yes, we'd be looking into our own past. Imagine how useful it would be for solving crimes. *To the bat-telescope-and-mirror!*
There are stages of sleep where you take in next to no outside information--you are dead to the world, basically. There are lighter stages of sleep where you take in more information and can be easily woken up. We cycle through many stages in a night of normal sleep, which means there will be several points during the night when sleep is light and you are more likely to be disturbed. Your brain also doesn't remember much in REM/deep sleep, while you remember more in lighter stages of sleep. You literally forget that you hit deep sleep. There are a lot of things that mess up deep stages of sleep: alcohol, sedative-hypnotics like benzos and z-drugs, some mental illness, some sleep disorders, etc. If you aren't hitting dead-to-the-world deep sleep, of course you will be woken up more easily. Problems like hypervigilance can disturb sleep because you are basically scanning for a reason to find a threat, and it's pretty hard to fall asleep with that sort of anxiety. Thay said, research suggests that outside of major sleep disorders, the difference between good sleep and bad sleep is highly subjective. Many people who consider themselves light or poor sleepers are actually quite average. **Edit: this got bigger than I thought it would, so I would like to take a minute to get on my own small soapbox:** If you are concerned about your own sleep, *please please please* talk to your doctor. There are thousands of things that impact sleep. Don't leave it to strangers on the internet. Your health and well-being are worth it. /u/none_shall_pass touched on sleep apnea, which I didn't mention, but I think it warrants extra attention. [The Mayo Clinic has a good overview.] ( URL_0 ) If you are concerned about anxiety, hypervigilance, or anything else related to mental health, *please please please* think about reaching out for help. Doctors, psychiatrists, psychologists, counsellors, social workers, mental health clinics, school counsellors, campus counsellors, online counselling resources, workplace employee assistance programs, mental health advocacy organizations, whatever is available in your area. Anyone can learn skills to feel better and handle the ups and downs of life more easily. And everyone deserves to feel well and healthy. / end soapbox It makes sense for a communication-based species to have members that can be in constant "guard mode" in case of any overnight danger so that they can alert their whole tribe. But because most of the time there is no danger and the light sleepers will wake up because a cat meowed, you don't want everybody to be light sleepers, because fully rested members of the tribe are more efficient for the daily work. So basically what happens it that evolutionary speaking, a humanoid sub-species with only light sleepers will lose in combat or any less brutal competition to well rested enemies and, over generations, eventually go extinct. A humanoid sub-species with only deep sleepers will get regularly robbed from their resources overnight or even murdered in their sleep by predators/competitors; eventually going extinct. The subspecies with a mix of both, however, will thrive; and that's our ancestors. Like many evolutionary traits, sleeping variety is an artefact of a time it was more useful than in nowadays' society. But since it's not really detrimental to our survival, that characteristic is still around. Ok seeing a few weird answers here, and some plain ridiculous ones. My anthropology knowledge isn't as strong as I'd like, but hopefully I can help. The short answer is, it's not fully known why this occurs. Humans have a wide range of variability in our species (by the way, current top comment keeps referring to subspecies of humans sleeping different, that's some false terminology), and thus behave and interact with the environment in an equally wide range of ways. Add to this situational events such as lack of recent sleep, stress, or even familiarity with the area you are sleeping in, and it is more understandable why this variation occurs. That's not to say there is or isn't one overarching reason, but mainly that many factors influence how a person sleeps. Brown University ran a [study]( URL_0 ) on sleep in unfamiliar places and found an 'on watch' effect where one hemisphere stays on alert. It's possible you were in this state permanently with your ex SO. You could ask yourself where you do sleep well, this might give a hint to the environment in which your alertness is switched off. It *highly* depends to what you wake up for. Young mothers wake up to anything that sounds like baby crying. While some other sounds don't seem to matter at all. For me, I'm a really deep sleeper and can easily shut down 7 alarms without even remembering I woke up to do this. I once woke up, lit a cigarette, got long-time-no-nicotine-dizziness, fall asleep again and didn't even wake up when half of my duvet burned down. Thank god my dog started barking like mad due smoke. But whenever I - before falling asleep - give myself mental command "if it rings, get up, get up", I jump up like a spring, sometimes even a minute BEFORE first alarm. And like a fool, wonder if I have a superpower like Jack Reacher or something to tell time in my head. Even weirder that it has nothing to do with tiredness level, sometimes I play games till 5 and still jump up at 8, just because I told myself to do this before falling asleep. Telling yourself to wake up doesn't sound very convincing when you're dead tired, but for some reason, it works. For me at least. 90% of time or so. There is antidote to this: cold room with super warm blankets. If that happens, and especially if room gets warmer in the morning, there's no sound or force in the world that can wake you up. My dad used to lit the stove in the early hours to warm the room up in our country house (military smarts, probably) and I remember those days as absolutely most luxurious sleep I've ever gotten. I woke up and felt like I've gained super health and energy. I think It's how brain and conscious are wired. I think your ears don't really turn off while you sleep, but your mind wires what ears should consider important and what not. I'm going to answer this based off of opinion and stuff I've heard from others my whole life. It all starts from how it was at home when you were a baby. If you are born and raised (first 5 years of your life-ish) where your Mother or Father or whoever was always noisy during naps/sleeping.. such as vacuuming, loud TV, and anything else that makes noise, you were prone to hearing loud noise while sleeping. You literally adapted to trying to sleep through loud noises. Now for those who wake up to a pin drop. As a baby trying to sleep.. maybe the Mother, Father or whoever tippy-toed around the house and silently shut doors and had the TV on low to make sure precious baby Gerald stayed asleep; this could be the reason why that person can be easily woken up to loud noises. I believe it's all how you were raised and what made you adapt to certain noise levels while trying to sleep. It's an evolutionary trait. If you were a caveman, you better pray that you are easily waken up. It's supposed to protect you from predators and other threats that could kill you if you stayed asleep. If you ever feel jealous that someone can sleep through anything, just remember they're more likely to die in the wilderness. Training. People who grew up in noisy environments or went through traumatic times where there were loud noises at night (i.e. soldiers), they've trained their brains to ignore superfluous sounds. You could do a bunch of work to try and train your brain, you'll be dead tired for a long time before your brain reaches the "fuck it" point and just sleeps through. Or, you can just put on some static/wave sounds so you're not disturbed by unimportant noises. [There are some good answers to this question in past threads]( URL_0 ) Sort of covered, but not specifically mentioned - how *comfortable* you are in your sleeping surroundings is *vital* to how deeply you sleep. If it's your first time staying somewhere, and you're alone, you're (probably) going to sleep incredibly lightly. There's *unquestionably* an evolutionary aspect to all of this, but the what, how, and why are beyond ELI5 by a long shot. It boils down to "we used to live outside". I'm an insomniac and I sleep like the dead (when I get to) to the point that I have slept through: several fires + fire alarms, tornadoes, hurricanes, two earthquakes, fireworks, and a new years eve bash. What can wake me up: cat jumping on me and smothering me for food at 4am. :| Proper answer here!!! The answer is sleep spindles. Countless research has shown that it's not evolutionary, and no, you can't train yourself. No, it's sleep spindles that we are born with. The more spindles you produce during a sleep cycle, the better you can tolerate noise, and coincidentally, spindles are related to better memory - so ability to create sleep spindles - > better sleep - > better memory - > yada yada. URL_0 I would love to know! The smallest thing wakes me up. For example: someone staring at me, the power going off... etc. My alarm clock is literally one light vibration and that's it.
Imagine a room with some 3-dimensional objects in it, like a sphere, a cube, a cone, a pyramid, etc. The room and the objects are uniformly white in color, and there's no light except for a flashlight that you can shine into the room from different locations. Every time you shine the light inside the room, you take a picture. After you've taken several pictures, you sit down and look at the results. Soon, you start classifying various shadows that you've seen. You have a bunch of shadows that are crescent shaped, a bunch that are sort or rectangular, etc. You compile a whole huge book of these shadows, and it's pretty impressive, but it's really hard to explain it all to other people because the location of the flashlight and picture make all sorts of subtle differences in the shapes of the shadows. Then, a breakthrough! Someone says, hey, those are shadows from 3-dimensional solids. The crescents come from a sphere, the rectangular ones from a cube, etc. Now, all of a sudden, you've got an easy way to classify all your 2-dimensional shadows simply by referencing 3-dimensional shapes that create them. This isn't what's happening in string theory, but the principle of being able to explain more with less by adding dimensions is similar. A great deal of what we know about light, heat, magnetism, and so on can be explained more simply by a universe with more dimensions. In this 10, 11, or 26 dimensional universe, everything we see is just one special case of a more general set of rules. This won't be a satisfying answer, but you're asking a question that doesn't lend itself to satisfying answers. String theory requires 10 dimensions because the theory is simpler with 10 than it is with 4. And for the record, not all string theories require 10 dimensions. Basically any theory from 10-26 dimensions can be credible. 10 is just the most common result for supersymmetry theories. to put it as simple as I can: - string theory is the theory that there are tiny dimensions we cant perceive but that do exist. you know, like the example that a piece of string/rope looks basically one-dimensional to you (length), but to an ant it is 2-dimensional (surface) and to a bacteria it might be 3 dimensional (volume/surface+inside). - the more dimensions there are, the tinier they can be and fulfill most quantum physics equations. - experiments have shown that the "larger" dimensions cant exist (or are EXTREMELY unlikely to exist, not sure which one), so basically to make the math work AND not violate what we already observed (aka be actual physics) the dimensions need to be smaller and thus you need at least 8 or 10 dimensions
I had to create an account just so I could explain and discredit the "faster than light" reply. Nothing that we know of travels FTL. Anyway. Consider the average classical computer. Every bit has two states, 1 or 0. Just like a light switch. It's either on or off and nothing in between. With some clever manipulation, and counting in base 2, we can use a ton of these to do some neat stuff, like add and subtract. A quantum bit is the same with one difference. It can be a mixture of a 1 and 0. Like when you hit that sweet spot on a light switch in between off and on. Understand that this is not a third state, nor has the light switch become a dimmer switch (where you can control the amount that light is on - that's analogue and quantum bit is still digital). The quantum bit is a superposition of both off and on. What's the point of all this? In the classical computer, you run a calculation, then run the next etc. In a quantum computer, you could run them all simultaneously. Useful for brute forcing encryptions, querying a database and modelling particles. That's about it. For these things there is the quantum computer, for everything else there are classical computers. Source: Msci physics degree. I only have fundamental knowledge of a quantum computer after module based around quantum bits themselves.
There are a lot of different ways this can be done, and I could go into great detail about many algorithms (such as [A*]( URL_0 )), but in order to keep this simple, let's compare it to two human players in a game of chess. Player A barely knows how to move the pieces while Player B is well-practiced and can see 10 moves ahead. Obviously, Player B will win the match; he can look at numerous different situations the game can end up in. He does this by playing "what if" scenarios in his mind, then chooses the path with the best outcome that *he has seen so far*. To reduce the difficulty for Player A, Player B might limit himself to only looking 5 moves ahead. Another method of reducing difficulty is to add a timer. Player B only gets 20 seconds to think about his move. Or maybe it's only 10 seconds. Either way, the player is forced to make a move, and may not have time to consider every option available to him. If given *enough time* and *enough processing power / memory*, a computer could theoretically **never lose** a board game like checkers or chess. Another simple way is to: increase the amount of damage an enemy does; decrease dropped loot/experience; larger maps; and another subtle one is actually to change the music being played during a scenario. That's one of my favorites to mess with: increased tempo can lead to higher heart rates, which can cause players to lose focus and mess up more. There's a lot game designers can do aside from changing AI thought patterns.
Is this something you are considering doing, or something you want to understand better? I ask because this appears to be a flavor of the "sovereign citizen" mythology claiming that there's a secret account in your name that you can access if you just say the magic legal words. There's a story to be explained behind that madness, but not one that involves anyone actually getting out of debt. It is utter nonsense invented by a mix of idiots and frauds, which has no legal validity and is reasonably likely to end up with the person claiming it spending time in jail for contempt of court. There is no such thing as a "strawman account," and a UCC-1 is a form filed by people who are *actually* owed money (in the real world, not the fantasy land of "strawman accounts").
Sometimes there is and it's called Thundersnow. Most of the time there isn't because the conditions that cause lighting aren't typically present during a winter snowstorm. Most of the time a snowstorm is just....lots of snow. Sometimes it's snow and really bad winds. But neither of those are the conditions to produce lightning.
Because your peripheral vision contains more rods (the cells that detect light vs dark) than cones (which detect color and are useless in the dark). The very center of your vision needs to have high acuity in daylight which means lots of color detection.
Most people I know are not okay with eating moldy cheese unless it's specifically cultured mold such as is found in blue cheese. Molds used in blue cheese are safe for human consumption and enhance the flavor, but they are a specific type of mold. The fuzzy stuff that eventually appears on both cheese and bread tastes horrible and has a risk of triggering an allergic reaction or some other negative reaction. Edit: I can't grammar. The mold on bread is from random spores in the air. The mold on cheese is a specific kind that was used to make the cheese so it's edible. People don't eat just random mold that grew on cheese like cheddar. There's a great program on Netflix called Cooked, they've got a super episode about the relationship between humans and mold/fungus that will make you appreciate both. Check it out! A thing I am not seeing mentioned is mycelium (analogous to roots). In a hard cheese visible mould can be trimmed one inch in on all sides and this will remove the entire organism. In a soft cheese or bread, there is no guarantee that the mycelium has not already spread throughout and thus it is no longer safe for the public and/or you (but do what you want at home). E: - for / At least in my experience, it is because cheese seems much less porous than bread. I can just cut the mold off of cheese and eat what is underneath, where as mold on bread seems to spread to the inside and throughout. Edit: I know this is not really the case, and mold is more than just on the surface. Im just pointing out what we can choose to ignore and what we won't. Think about the density of those two foods. First, you've got a block of cheddar. Got a little mold on it? It hasn't permeated much past the *very* outside of the cheese. You can scrape/cut it off and you're good to go. Now think about a slide of whole wheat bread. It's not really an option to surgically remove the moldy parts, is it? And with all that air, the mold has probably spread further than you can even immediately see. Might as well throw it out. Different kinds of mold. Some bread molds can be deadly, such as [ergot]( URL_0 ). We are cool with a very specific kinds of moldy cheese, carefully cultivated to grow molds that tastes good and are safe for humans. Bread just doesn't keep long enough for this sort of work. If your bread is moldy, it is already getting pretty old. mold is a grouping of many different organisms. some are toxic like black mold that grows in attics. others are not toxic, like bleu cheese mold. White mold: Good stuff. Green mold: You gonna get sick. Black mold: You might die. The white color on brie cheese is actually white mold. In olden days and still alot of cheese were stored so they could mature in caves, because caves are decently steril and they are cold.
The took the whole oat berry, which is hard like a little stone, and chopped it up into little chunks with "steels" to make it easier to cook. Rolled oats are oats that are steamed, rolled to be flattened, and dried to be even easier to cook. Quick oars are chopped, steamed, rolled, and dried to be even easier than that to cook. And whole oat berries are a pain in the ass to cook. Whole oat berries, boil in water, simmer for 2 hours, hope for the best. Steel cut oats, boil n water, simmer for 45 minutes, kind of a chunky texture. Rolled oats, boom in water, simmer for 10 minutes, much less chunky. Quick oats I think these are all great answers, but no one has answered the "what makes them (apparently) preferable" part of your question, at least not from a nutrition perspective. The idea is that some of these carbohydrate sources take longer to digest and so are preferable for long-term energy. Quick, rolled, etc. are broken down faster by the digestive tract and produce more of a short-term spike in blood sugar; they have a higher glycemic index, which is considered bad. In general these less processed, more slowly-digested carb sources are considered healthier. They do take longer to cook, though. I know from my personal experience that if I eat steel-cut oats for breakfast, maybe with some nuts and dried fruit, I'm good for five or six hours before I start to feel hungry and low on energy again. Quick rolled oats, I can't go nearly as long. URL_0 Steel cut oats are whole grains, chopped into smaller pieces but otherwise still intact. This means they take longer to cook, but since they're not rolled out or processed, they retain their shape and have a heartier texture after cooking. Rolled oats are whole grains, but rolled flat so they're quicker to cook. After cooking, they tend to have a softer texture, but still retain their shape somewhat. Processed or "instant" oats are precooked and THEN rolled flat. They cook the fastest and tend to cook to a goopy'er texture, not holding their form well.
Current is in the opposite direction of how the charges are actually "moving" due to historical reasons. When Franklin and others were first formalizing an organized set of laws for circuits, they assumed that the positive charge (arbitrarily named so) moved. Well, they were wrong. Electrons are the particles that "move", so to say, not the positive protons. So the current is in one direction, but the negative electrons actually move in the other.
fish usually die because the chemistry of the water is significantly different. temperature, ph levels, ammonia, nitrate, nitrite levels, any other chemicals in the system. it's rarely a matter of mud vs clean.
They are pretty distant from the "normal bears" (brown, black, grizzly, polar), in taxonomy terms. All are members of the Ursidae Family, but pandas are a unique subfamily (Ailuropodinae), genus (Ailuropoda), and species (Melanoleuca).
Most of what your brain does has nothing to do with "thinking hard". Rather, the energy is primarily going towards just keeping all the systems operational. While it would no doubt be possible to measure some small difference in energy consumption based on use, this difference probably wouldn't favor the sort of thinking you're considering. It's a much more difficult computational chore for your brain to play a game of racquetball than it is for your to lie dead still and philosophize about how much energy you can burn with pure thought. In theory yes, in practice no. Focusing on certain tasks, even concentrating hard is not significant. Your brain is constantly doing all sorts of things. Someone brought up chess. I dont think that that 7000 figure could possibly be right. Maybe 70 at best but i dont feel like even 700 would be possible. Think about this. We have an incredibly easy time making a computer that can beat even a grandmaster in chess but we have a very difficult time making a computer that can control an mechanical arm to have any where near as fine as motor control as we could control our hands. Every single action we do from a heartbeat to running a course for Ninja Warrior is extremely complicated. That doesnt even factor how much brain power is needed just to process our senses. Focusing hard a single set of thoughts isnt as complicated or hard as one might think. Edit: I read up on the Grandmaster thing. Its not the brain usage that contributes to such an incredible high calorie consumption but the incredible levels of stress that they can go through. It put a lot of strain on the body being in that hieghtened level. It has far less to do with with use of mind. To top that the amount of energy being consumed for 8 hours of play in a row at that level if only brain power would equate to the brain using somewhere in the neighborhood of 300+ watts. Its highly unlikely that can be the case because the brain normally sits at around 20 watts.
Alcohol is a depressant which your body is trying to fight. As the depressant wears off your body is still pushing the opposite way with adrenaline. The result is like trying to push back against someone who suddenly stops resisting: you fly forward. Your body suddenly experiences the positive effects of that adrenaline by waking up suddenly, possibly refreshed (though you'll feel like shit if you weren't drinking water).
Most cameras are set up with three different color sensors because that makes most sense if you are to watch it with your eyes. However the colors the camera sensors detect is not the exact same as the ones humans detect but is close enough. And you have broad spectrum sensors that detect light levels which is something that is missing from cameras so you can see more colors then a camera. However we can make different color filters for the cameras if we want to. You have likely seen infrared cameras that can see the heat from cold things like we can see the red or orange glow from hotter things. For scientific use there can be lots of different color sensors in a camera. I have worked with images with 7 different colors to detect different compositions. It turns out green farmland can be very colorful in different infrared colors which can be useful to see different properties in of the plants and soil. If you ever wondered what the difference in color is between snow and clouds check out the ultraviolet colors and see the huge difference. > Can a camera capture ALL colours, some of which we can't see? **Most** cameras capture less colors than our eye can see. For example, violet is not accurately captured by color cameras because it lies outside the [gamut]( URL_1 ) captured by the Red, Green, and Blue filters used in cameras. They cover most of the colors in nature but highly saturated, single-wavelength colors (think lasers) are slightly outside their gamut. A [chromaticity diagram]( URL_0 ) shows the range of colors we can reproduce inside the triangle of the three primary colors. The colors outside it are simulated because your monitor uses the same primary colors as your camera. You can make cameras which capture more colors, but you would also need to make monitors which can display them. The demand for that just isn't great enough to justify the cost.
Ergonomics as a science hadn't been invented yet, and guns were mostly handcrafted pieces, so each gunsmith was kind of just doing his own thing. Ergonomics also isn't all that important when you have a gun with no sights and you're only expected to fire a couple rounds a minute at most. Because: * you spent a whole lot more time loading the musket than holding it * accuracy was so bad that good design wouldn't really help * recoil was pretty small, a good grip was less important * no one really cared if a soldier got carpal tunnel * they didn't know any better These were one shot, smooth-bore weapons that required a lengthy reload between shots. They weren't accurate, and they weren't capable of firing multiple rounds. That means that aiming and recoil damping (what ergonomics helps) weren't important, only production cost and reload speed. That's also why pre and early-civil war battles were fought with large formations. The rows can alternate fire and shoot enough musket balls to actually hit something.
Correct me if I'm wrong but I believe viruses are too small to reflect visible spectrum light. So, in essence they are colourless. However, whether it be for aesthetic detail or visibility they are pseudocoloured to what ever is appealing or appropriate. Bacteria on the other hand, do express colour. Due to their larger size they reflect visible spectrum light and some express pigments such as chlorophyll. Some can be colourless, whilst others are pseudocolour. They can be stained with GFP (green fluorescent protein) to be easily identified. To clarify, I'm not too familiar with this aspect of pathogens so feel free to add anything below or correct me. Hope this helps.
They use a formula! On a windless day your body & environment radiates heat that makes the air around you warmer than the average temperature. If it is windy, the heat you radiate blows away, so the temperature gradient between your body and the actual temperature is much shorter. Scientists have derived this formula: > New Wind Chill Index = > 35.74 + 0.6215*T - 35.75(V^0.16 ) + 0.4275T(V^0.16 ) > where: > V = wind speed (mph) > T = temperature (F) The math behind the constants gets college level really quickly, but is available if your google-fu is strong.
At a guess I would say that new games are bigger then a disc can hold, my battlefield 1 digital game was 43 GB (rip my data cap :( ). Im willing to bet that if everything has to be read off the discs the load screens would be all over the place and, with all the massive open worlds lately, that would be a game killer. The 360 has a ridiculously high reading speed to read the massive amount of data DVDs hold. I think a DVD spins around 300 times a minute? Which is crazy and one of the reasons the console is really loud. Yet, this gives the 360 the ability to read a lot of data off discs, avoiding long install times. The PS3, on the other hand, had the issues that they used a new format and also way lower reading speeds, which ended up in the need to install games, at least partly. The BD drive used in the PS3 was really slow and to compensate for that I read that some companies put their game data more than once on the disc, so it can be reached in time without long loading times inbetween. Thanks to the pretty huge size of blu ray this wasn't really an issue. Or they simply offloaded a lot of reading work to the ps3s HDD, which can read data a lot faster than the disc drive. When the new consoles arrived the whole install thing became quite the usual thing, also HDDs weren't as expensive anymore as they used to be. So you can throw in a reasonable big size with okay-ish reading speed, copy the entire game on it and let it handle the reading speed issue because BD drives still aren't fast enough to access data off discs. So you pretty much pre-install a game on PS4/X1 up until a point where it becomes playable and the rest background installs while you can start playing. Some games, like Final Fantasy XV or Battlefront just give you a small demo level to run around in, others give you the whole prolog to play (I think Uncharted 4 does this?) and the worst ones, like Fallout 4, let you start the game but have you watch an ingame install screen.
It acts as a vehicle for ranch or blue cheese to cool the mouth off without having to take more hot sauce to get the cooling relief.
You start dying. Your lings fill with fluid without a drug to counteract this which is a major part of the plot of a good movie on HBO. Is it Everest? You'll experience hypoxia due to lack of oxygen. You'll become delusional, experience muscle fatigue, difficulty breathing, tingling of extremities, lightheadedness. If you're not acclimated to oxygen levels at high altitudes you'll certainly pass out. After a while you will experience irreversible brain damage due to lack of oxygen reaching the brain. If you aren't treated, and especially in the extreme cold, you will die after some time.
> What causes some adults to be attracted to children? We haven't figured that out yet. > Is paedophilia normal or a psychological disorder and why? *Long semi-tangential stuff* To answer that we really need to lay down what exactly these mean. What exactly does it mean for something to be normal? Usually it means that it occurs frequently enough that we accept it as part of life. It does not mean unavoidable. What about a disorder? What does that mean? A psychological disorder is a pretty broad concept. It's any psychological issue that is problematic. That leads to who decides what is problematic? In general it's the person themselves. However, there is a big caveat for when there is risk to either the individual or others. You can imagine a situation where somebody is having voices telling them to murder people: that's a clear risk to society so they would be considered to be ill even if the individual can't see it and will be institutionalised involuntarily. Lastly, we need to define paedophilia. There is a technical meaning and a lay meaning. The technical meaning is somebody sexually attracted to prepubescent children. The lay meaning is more or less child sexual abuse. I'm only talking about the technical definition of attraction. Back to the questions. Is it 'normal'? No, it's considered rare enough that we do not consider it normal. However, it is unavoidable. Much like homosexuality it does not appear to be chosen. You could also frame it as being analogous to murder, another abnormal thing that will never be eliminated and thus, unavoidable. Is it a disorder? The technical definition is considered a mental disorder **if** it causes problems: either personal distress or if they have acted upon the desires. (note: this is contentious, however it's the current diagnostic standard in the [dsm5]( URL_0 )). I mentioned homosexuality as another sexual preference that is not chosen. Why isn't that considered a disorder too? The difference is in the risk of harm. Note that there is a different word based on which age range you're talking about, but reality is never black and white. Media pushes women to look younger. Sexual attraction to someone like "little" lupe Fuentes who was of age during the beginning of her porn career skew the line even more. Also, as I've read another comment before, there's a difference between being attracted to a younger person, and being attracted because the person is young.
Given the scale of the impact theorized there wouldn't really be a crater. We're talking about an object the size of Mars hitting the Earth. Had it not happened so long ago that gravity had once again smoothed out the Earth's surface, we'd notice a hell of a lot more than something like a crater. This theory is all about what we see on the moon and (mostly) not about what we see on Earth. The moon is made of almost the exact same type of stuff the Earth's crust is made out of in all the same proportions that the Earth has. However, the moon has almost none of the stuff found in the lower layers of the Earth. As such, it looks like the moon is made out of material from the Earth's crust. The most promising theory about how a bunch of the Earth's crust got 300,000 km away is that an impact blasted it out into space where its gravity caused it to collect and condense into the moon we see today. [Look at Mars's entire northern hemisphere]( URL_0 ). Notice how it's much lower than the southern one? It's probably a crater. Ours would be even bigger. Given that Earth is much more geologically active than Mars and it was likely mostly liquid at the time of the impact, there won't be a structure to go around looking for. The presummed impact that created the moon would have been very massive and intense. It would have generated so much heat that the crust of the earth would have liquidfied into molten rock. Leaving no crater Venus is a great example of this. due to a massive resurfacing event there are much fewer craters on Venus than the earth despite being of similar size and position in the solar system.
I'm not sure how common they are, but here are some possible reasons why a sports contract would include one: 1) Athletes are notoriously bad with money. Annuities provide a more stable source of income rather than giving it all to the player at once. 2) Because the salary is deferred, the team has more time to acquire income and invest its savings, enabling the team to give the player a larger amount of money. (e.g. You can have $1 million now or you can get $1.05 million if you're willing to get paid over the course of a year.) 3) If the full salary isn't paid right away, it frees up cash for immediate spending on other players. Having a team full of better players is beneficial for both the player and the team since they both have an interest in winning a championship or at least looking like serious contenders for a championship. There are a couple of reasons: 1. It allows them to have income after they're retired, saving them from themselves spending it all and retiring broke. 2. It allows for a larger number to be reported publicly for players' egos, but team is OK with it since the future value of the money will be lower than same amount today (and they can set up annuity for less money in today's dollars to pay it out). Let's say a player negotiated a 4 year, $40 million deal with 1/4 deferred... then that last $10 million get paid in the future when it's buying power is less, and the team can put away $5-6 million now to grow into that $10 million in 10 years, vs. paying out the full $10 million in next 4 years. Maybe they'd only have be willing to pay $35 million if all paid out during contract, but by deferring the player can brag about the bigger number while the team spends the same. 3. Tax brackets may be impacted, where the player could be in a lower tax bracket for state taxes, or reside in a lower tax state then. Some states have high tax brackets for 7-figure incomes and players have to pay taxes in some states where they play (work) for amount of games played there vs. an annuity would be all in their state of residence.
Cancer that originates in muscle does exist, but it's rare. They are called soft tissue sarcomas. About 3% of childhood cancer is rhabdomyosarcoma. In the US, that translates to about 350 cases per year. It's more common in children as they are rapidly growing, and it's the rapid growth of muscle makes it more common. Muscle itself is a pretty cool thing -- mostly a bunch of long fibers coated in this sheath that's a bunch of cells that have fused together into a giant single cell. That sheath is what builds new muscle when the muscles are damaged or growing. In children, this is frequently active, but in adults, it only "switches on" in the presence of chemical that activates the cells - and that only happens as a response to local damage. Without the signal, they simply never divide -- they can't. Cells where cell-division is deactivated don't tend to change into cancer cells -- cancer being the name we give to cells where the division process goes off the rails. No. Same for heart muscle. Why is this so? It has alot to do with the pathogenesis of cancer. Cancer originates from a cell that undergoes mutation during cell division and no longer follows the regulated cycle. So it replicates itself non stop (hyperplasia) despite the body sending signals telling it to stop. But the scenario is different for muscle cells that RARELY undergoes cell division. Instead it merely enlarges (hypertrophy) to adapt to the body's increasing demand. Because of this, you never get cancer of the muscles because it doesn't divide itself to begin with.
Well, the main issue is that smoking ANYTHING is going to have its potential health risks. Even vaping, which doesn't produce actual smoke, can only really claim to be much better than the alternative. It hasn't been studied enough to know the long term effects, but anytime you're inhaling something like nicotine it's going to come with certain detriments to your health.
Newspaper columns are justified on both the left and right, which means that the left margin and the right margin are both straight (see [this image]( URL_0 ) for a visual explanation). There are a couple of techniques you can use to get both margins straight, and usually you use a combination of both: you can use hyphenation to break up longer words, and you can adjust the spacing between words, or between individual letters. In most publications you barely notice it, but newspapers typically use very narrow columns. Because they use such narrow columns, it's harder to get the text to justify correctly, and often words or letters are spaced out so far it becomes noticeable. In the days before computers were used to set type, this was done by hand, and it's a very difficult thing to get exactly right: newspapers had to be printed very quickly, so text justification was often done poorly. With modern technology, the process can be automated, but now the problem is getting the software to understand what looks neat and professional to a human, and what doesn't. The composition software they use to format the columns figures out how many words will fit on a line without hyphenating anything, and then evens out the spacing between the letters to exactly fill up the whole line. Sometimes a line doesn't have a lot of characters in it, so the spacing ends up really big. Source: I used to be a typesetter I worked at a company that published scientific journals. If the journal's style guide specified justified we would often spend an hour on a single article adjusting kerning to get words to bump to the next line to fix these kinds of issues. Formatting basically. Some words are double or triple spaced in order to fit them visually into a neat paragraph. Some newspapers will hyphenate words instead. > That was how she understood Chris- tmas We used to get weekly readers in elementary school. I noticed the weird typesetting and asked the teacher why it was like that. She explained that when a word couldn't be broken up with a hyphen, they would space the letters to make the column even on both sides. Before then I always thought that it was a way to show your eyes that this line had some kind of importance above all the others.
Infrastructure in place to deal with it, both people's stuff and city wide. If you live in an area that regularly gets snow, you have snowblowers. You have shovels. You have winter tires, and they're already on the car. The city has huge salt reserves, plows, you name it. if you live somewhere that *doesn't* get snow regularly... that's a lot of money to spend on shit you need once every five years, tops! So nobody has the equipment to deal with even a little bit. **edit:** one additional problem warmer climates can have is ice. In colder climates, once the weather gets below freezing it usually **hangs out** below it for some time. So snow stays snow. But in the south, if it happens it only happens for relatively short times. If you have cold enough weather for snow, then it warms up enough to melt briefly, then dips back down again... now you have nice big sheets of *ice*. And that will ruin your day. Because northern states have snow plows and salt trucks, and southern states don't. So they have no way to clear the roads in the south. The snow just sits there, making travel almost impossible. Especially for a populace that has no experience driving even on well-maintained winter roads, let alone roads with several inches of unremoved snow.
They influence factors like metabolism, appetite, subconscious activity (neat) and decrease water retention
Time division multiple access. Each user gets a time period on that frequency to talk and no one else is allowed to use it during that time period. If you split a second into 100 chunks then each person gets a 10 millisecond window to transmit a second's worth of data for clean audio. There's loads of multiple access techniques. Code division multiple access CDMA, space division SDMA, frequency FDMA and time TDMA :)
My guess is there is a disk directly below the disk that has holes for safe teeth to get pushed down through. The triggering tooth pushes the disk down and triggers the jaw to close. The disk gets spun every time you open the jaws and is randomized by that spinning. It's been a while since I researched this, so my facts may be a little fuzzy, but like /u/digitaluddite said it uses a disk. Opening the jaw loads a spring for energy storage, and pressing the trigger tooth releases the energy, causing the disk to spin and the jaw to close. The disk has an inaccurate breaking mechanism that causes it to stop at a new random location.
Water has a delightful property: when water solidifies it's bond angles extend and it aligns into a lattice usually. That does 2 things. It makes the solid less dense, because there's more space between molecules, and it makes it sort of see-through.
What determines it: Genes. Your blood type is dependent on both parents, although the details get a little weird. Basically, blood types represent little bits of stuff sticking off of your red blood cells, which your immune system can interpret. Think of it like a bunch of ID badges or uniforms. If your immune cells recognize your stuff as friendly, it's all good; if not, your immune system attacks and destroys the cell. The important point is that your immune system is ready to attack whatever you DON'T have on your own cells. There are actually dozens of different things sticking off red blood cells, but the only ones we really care about are the AB system and the Rh system (the positive or negative part.) If you have the A thing only, you're type A. If you have the B thing only, you're type B. If you have both, you're AB; neither, you're O. The Rh system is another thing, and you either have it (positive) or you don't (negative.) Combine this all together, and you can be A+, B-, AB-, O+, whatever. Whatever you DON'T have on your cells, you make antibodies against, because it's foreign and weird. So, if you're A+, you make anti-B antibodies. If you're B-, you make anti-A and anti-Rh antibodies. If you're O-, you make antibodies against everything. If you're AB+, you don't make any antibodies. This gets important for blood transfusions, since you can only get blood you won't destroy. O- blood can be given to anyone since it has nothing offensive on it, while people with AB+ blood can receive any type. Blood type is determined by genetics, but is slightly different than dominant/recessive traits because it can be co-dominant (that's how you ended up AB). People that are A would have either AA or Ai (for some reason O is i in Punnett squares). People that are B are either BB or Bi, people that are AB are exactly that- AB, and people that are O are ii. Whatever blood type you are, is the kind of ANTIGEN you express on your red blood cells. You're AB so you express A and B antigens. You also have no antibodies in your plasma (in terms of blood antibodies, not bacteria/viruses). People with A blood type have B antibodies (so they would attack B type blood if they received a transfusion). People with B type blood have A antibodies. People with O blood have A and B antibodies (why O can only receive blood from other O's, and why AB can receive from anyone). As to positive or negative, that again comes down to genetics. It's called rh factor, and it's also an antigen that is expressed on the surface of red blood cells. Your parents are either both positive or one of each, but they absolutely are not both negative. This means your parents could be any multitude of combinations (AA+, AA-, Ai+, Ai-, BB+, BB-, Bi+, Bi- OR both AB+). Positive and negative doesn't really have any impact on you, AB+ is known as the universal receiver, literally anyone in the world can donate blood to you!
That's not quite how unsecured debt works. All it means is they can't automatically claim ownership of your house if you miss three payments. But they can still sue you in small claims court, and a bailiff will confiscate your property, sell it, and give the money to your creditors. Now, if you wanted to take out loans without risking your property, you would need to form a Limited Liability Company (LLC). This is what Limited Liability means in the name: the company's debts are covered only be the assets of the company, not the assets of its owners. Of course, nobody's going to give a big loan to an LLC without collateral and a history of repaying loans! In theory you could also take out a bunch of loans, spend the money, and declare personal bankruptcy. This makes debts go away, but you don't get to keep your property. Again, there's a court-appointed administrator that gets control over everything you own, and everything you make for a number of years. You get to keep basically some clothes and pots and pans, everything else is sold to pay back your creditors. 1) Doing this deliberately would be fraud, and if they could prove you never intended to pay, you could end up in prison. 2) You can only declare bankruptcy if you actually don't have anything to pay the debts back with. If you had £50k worth of gold, the credit card company could obtain a court order to seize it, and sell it off ... before you could claim bankruptcy. Unsecured doesn't mean they can't take your stuff, it just means it's not secured against a specific thing. 3) If you are bankrupt, you cannot borrow any money at all until the bankruptcy expires .... usually 7 years, I believe. A bankruptcy filing has a million other implications as well. Small things such as cell phones are tied to your credit score so you might not be able to get a cell phone plan if you declare bankruptcy and instead have to rely on a pay as you go type of provider. Same thing with cable, Internet, and home phone access. Car loans will be either impossible or at immensely high interest rates. Even some employers run your credit score, with your consent, as it shows a sense of responsibility that might otherwise be faked in an interview/resume Companies aren't going to risk that you cannot pay them back.
Most anti-viruses do it very similarly. Here's what Symantec/Norton anti-virus does: 1. Load the malicious file into memory. 2. Encrypt it with a simple algorithm. (Something similar to subtracting 10 from every byte. So if the virus's code looked like KLM, the encrypted version would become ABC.) 3. Move the encrypted version to some folder like C:\Symantec\Quarantine. 4. Delete the original file. The encrypted version is basically rendered inert; it's as if it's been deleted. The bytes in the file are completely different and cannot be run, opened, viewed, etc. If you open Symantec and view the quarantine folder, you can choose to restore it, which just means decrypting it and moving it back to its original location. This is also why ransomware malware is effective. By encrypting every file on your computer and throwing away the key (retaining a copy for themselves, privately), they've effectively made everything inert, as if they deleted all your files. By paying money, they can send the key back to you. Virus applications vary in their methods. One method I've seen is that the application will 'delete' the file from the current existing location. What may actually happen is the virus application will move the file to a secure location (determined by the virus application), rename it, and log it as a quarantined file. In this way, the file is still available to the virus application and is now secured so it cannot propagate or run on its own. This is due to a possible false-positive detection. Likely the file could be cleaned also, depending on the virus and/or strain. When you open and review any files your virus application has quarantined, you could review, and if needed either restore the file or delete the quarantined file (along with many others).
If Microsoft didn't buy anything with its cash and just let it sit in something that gained interest, it would have made $25 million on that $2.5 billion (savings accounts typically are around 1% return). They're saying that the purchase of Mojang and Minecraft is worth the $2.5 billion, and that as long as it's worth that, you don't have to make the $2.5 billion back in returns. It would be like you having $500,000 in the bank and you buy a $100,000 house. The house doesn't have to gain $100,000 in value to bring you "back" to even. You're still worth $500,000, but $100,000 is in a house now instead of cash. The house just has to earn what that $100,000 in cash would have earned if you hadn't spent it. You spend money in order to prevent yourself from having to spend as much on taxes while also becoming a larger conglomerate.If they just had that 25 billion on the bank they'd spend 2.5~ billion in taxes on that every year. Secondly , you're only thinking about Minecraft as a video game . It's an IP now, it's ingrained in our children and the society. We have toys and phone cases etc, there will probably be a movie and everytime that happens it's advertising for microsoft.
Many of the answers here are very close to being correct. Methamphetamine is (nearly) chemically identical to amphetamine except for an extra methyl group (a carbon atom with hydrogen attached). This addition makes methamphetamine more hydrophobic (ELI5 term: oil-like). This makes a drastic difference in how the drug reaches the brain to do its work. For any chemical to reach the brain from the blood stream, it has to get past the blood brain barrier, which is designed to stop large, hydrophilic (ELI5: water-like, the opposite of hydrophobic) molecules from reaching the brain (such molecules are often toxins enountered in nature, so this barrier is the body's natural way of shielding valuable brain tissue from any mistakes your mouth makes/eats). In general, when it comes to chemicals like psychoactive drugs (chemicals that affect the brain), more hydrophobic molecules cross the blood brain barrier more easily, and are more effective at altering brain function at lower doses. This means its takes a lower dose of methamphetamine to achieve the same effects as a given amount of amphetamine. But this isn't really the reason why meth has a greater stigma and isn't more widely used as a medical treatment. The real reason is more practical, and has to do with how meth is produced in trailer-park kitchens. Now, most people are aware that a type of decongestant (ELI5: stuffy nose medicine), Sudafed, is widely used to produce meth. This use has resulted in stricter control over the sale of pseudoephedrine (the active chemical in Sudafed), much to the annoyance of sick persons everywhere. The reason why meth cooks are so hell bent on getting their hands on pseudoephedrine is that it is VERY similar, chemically to methamphetamine. The only difference between the molecules is--and tell me if this sounds familiar--a methyl group. The difference here is that pseudoephedrine is the molecule with the extra methyl group, and it's attached to a different part of the molecule than in the methamphetamine/amphetamine comparison. Anyways, this similarity makes things easy; all a meth cook needs to do is grind up some Sudafed pills, dissolve the active ingredient to extract it from the powder, and set up a reaction that will take off that methyl group. This reaction is pretty easy, as chemical reactions go, as it doesn't require much in the way of exotic ingredients or lab equipment--just the right conditions to make that methyl group fall off (usually, this involves a very reactive metal, like the lithium found in computer batteries). Put these things together, do some purification, and voila: meth. (BTW: this is a VERY simple reaction familiar to people with more than four weeks of organic chemistry under their belts, which is why I'm not very worried about accidentally teaching any aspiring meth cooks any valuable chemistry lessons. I've left out enough detail that no one without some college chemistry experience would be able to fill in the blanks.) It is the simplicity of this chemical reaction that makes meth a much more common target of backyard/trailer park/Walmart bathroom chemists than amphetamine. There isn't a commonly available chemical out there that would make amphetamine in a similarly easy reaction. Due to the ready availability of products containing pseudoephedrine, meth became the go-to "amphetamine" for recreational cooks, giving it the common association with street drugs, rotten teeth, and Bryan Cranston (well, maybe that last one isn't such a stigma). Amphetamine, on the other hand, has most always been primarily a medical drug--often abused, but nearly universally produced by a pharmaceutical company, rather than Jimmy Cooks-A-Lot and his shake n' bake. As someone else mentioned, methamphetamine can and is prescribed medically for the same reasons as amphetamine. Under the name Desoxyn, it is a potent, last-string treatment for stubbonly difficult ADHD cases. In fact, as Desoxyn is pound for pound, milligram for milligram, more potent than amphetamine/adderall, it can accomplish the same therapheutic results with fewer side effects for the rest of the body. Pharmaceutical methamphetamine is actually safer and more efficacious then amphetamine salts. It requires a lower dosage and has fewer side effects. It is uncommonly prescribed for ADHD as Desoxyn. Amphetamines and methamphetamines are the same chemical structure apart from one methyl group (that's where the meth comes from in methamphetamine). This methyl group allows the chemical to dissolve more easily into the blood stream which in turn makes it more potent and more addictive Opinion: Although meth has the label of "most addicting" or whatever, I've known many people just as addicted to adderall as meth. As in non-functioning without taking 90-120mg, double or more to get "high." Also remember one is illegal and one is a pharmaceutical. Would a company normally play up or play down the addiction potential of a product? Once you start taking it and it gets you I don't feel one is more "addictive" than the other. matej_latte has the answer, I just wanted to disagree with adderall being "safer,"
Uber is not a taxi, it is private hire. A "taxi" is licensed to pick up passengers who flag them down from the street or from a taxi rank, without prearrangement. Anybody else doing that is breaking the law (if doing it for payment). A "private hire" is just paying someone to drive you from A to B. As long as it is pre-arranged and not flagged down from the street, you don't need a licence. Obviously laws will vary from place to place No. Uber is a way to organize town cars, not taxis. A taxi license gives you the right to pick up fares from the street. This is similar to how a street vendor might need a license to stand on the street corner selling you things. However if you had contacted someone to buy something and you meet on the corner to exchange the goods and money that does not make him into a street vendor. Similarly Uber is a broker of transportation services. Once you have bought a ride the driver is free to pick you up without a taxi license. This is just as legal as pirate taxis taking orders from people and showing up for their ride. Town cars have done this for a long time and are keeping it legal. The part that might not be legal depending on legislation is that in addition to the taxi license you might need a license to take fares for transport. This is the same if you are a taxi driver, town car driver, limousine driver, bus driver or Uber driver. Uber Black drivers are required to have such licenses but regular Uber Pop drivers are not and may be operating illegal.
Natural juice is expensive compared to just high fructose corn syrup or powdered asorbic acid. You're not thinking in bulk. A difference of even 1 cent per bottle multiplied by 6.5 billion bottles of Coca-Cola sold annually makes a big difference. It mostly boils down to cost. Natural fruit juice is expensive and usually does not have a long shelf life (longer shelf life is usually a good thing because it leads to less waste and more important less write-offs (a write-off meaning a product has reached the sell-by date and now either has to be 'sold' for free or thrown away, depending on laws and store policy). Even if they have high amounts of actual juice it's often concentrated apple juice because apple juice is relatively cheap (especially if it's from concentrated juice) and it also has a quite neutral taste so it doesn't overtake the other fruits in taste. This way they can legally claim "80% real fruit juice" even though 95% of that is apple juice and only 5% is the actual fruit they are marketing. It's mostly a case of cost savings and the public being used to it. In Germany, for example, you can get a drink called Apfelschorle, which is half soda water and half apple juice. For example, [this]( URL_0 ) brand uses a mixture of 57% apple juice, 3% lemon juice, 40% soda water and some extra apple flavouring. The other issue that hasn't been mentioned is seasonality. Sure, juice can be stored and packaged year round (orange juice is one of the most "processed" foods, not matter how much branding goes into making it seem like it was picked yesterday), but the fruit is only harvested in certain months of the year, and every harvest produces juice with different acid and sugar levels that have to be adjusted. Beverage chemist here. It's marketing. All marketing. Some here have said cost but if it was done *exclusively* for cost, said juice would not even be in there. HFCS and sugar was way cheaper on a *solids* basis. As far as the other ingredients in there, some ingredients (ascorbic acid (vitamin C), sucralose, cyanocobalamin (vitamin B12) are effective at very low doses (think milligrams & micrograms worth). If you're drinking tea that you've purchased, there's a good chance that there is only a small amount of "spray dried" tea in there and caramel color added. Drink water. (not alkaline water... more marketing). When the question is "Why do companies..." The answer will almost always be "To reduce costs." Also, don't overlook the fact that there is nothing magical about juice. It's fructose instead of sucrose, which is a minimal difference, plus water. There are a few water soluble vitamins, which no American/European is deficient in. Juice has to be harvested from a plant, though, which makes it more expensive. Apple juice is not "healthy" in any way, and I hate to see patients putting it in their kiddo's bottles. It's just flavored sugar water. Drink scientist here, specializing in natural juice sodas. The main reason is shelf stability. Natural juices dont hold color very long at all. The taste goes faster too. Natural juices are more expensive as well . the whole thing results in a cascade of increasing costs in the supply chain. Money. Why do companies do anything? Money. The answer is always money. Food companies use small amounts of real fruit juice let's say a table spoon per ten gallons. Since they added the tiny amount of fruit juice they can display on the label "made with real fruit juice". Your fruity drink consists almost entirely of sugar from concentrate. One reason is so they can call it something like "apple juice drink" or whatever so that in the minds of the general public it registers as apple juice. As long as it's that color and has an apple on the label many if not most people don't question it and just assume it's good for you. In addition to what everyone is saying, when Faygo first put out their pineapple flavored pop, stores at an issue with the bottles exploding. This was because they used real pineapple juice, and the said juice was fermenting, causing the bottles to explode. As you can guess, avoiding juice avoids exploding bottles. As others have said, I imagine it is because they wish to maximize profits. By using the absolute cheapest materials are available they do that. You can also factor in that they wish to make their product as addictive as possible. Caffeine is addictive, sugar is addictive, I imagine several of the other ingredients are also addictive. There are "sodas" from smaller companies that use more fruit juice. Izze is fruit juice and sparkling water. URL_0 You're asking the wrong question, because you start with the unfounded premise that sodas are supposed to be made mostly from natural juice. A better question is why sodas contain natural juice at all, and I think it's because of marketing reasons. If it contains at least some natural juice they can put that on the packaging and pretend it's somewhat healthy. My grandfather was a chemist who worked on foods. He told me it was because if a competitor tried to break down their formulas, the natural flavors will reveal hundreds of compounds and it make it difficult to determine the recipe. I feel like everyone has misinterpreted the question. Why is there say 5% juice in soda, or %1, and not 0.? Does that 1% juice really do anything to the flavor or marketability of the product? Of course we know that natural fruit juice is expensive. Companies make what people buy, and do so at the highest profit margin they can achieve. That's not a bad thing, that's just how making money works. In the U.S. at least, "natural" sodas and such drinks don't sell well. People don't really want them, so it doesn't make sense to make them. Natural ingredients are more expensive, so if customers are okay with it they will use manufactured substitutes where possible. At the end of the day, the customer preferences are why soda is unhealthy and unnatural. I visited thailand last week and i qas shocked how a normal coke has 49 g suggar / 100 ml compared to 9 g per 100 ml in germany but the taste was nearly identical it qas insane! Fruit juice extract contains only the pure flavor of that particular fruit. The rest of it boils down to amino acids, varying types of sucrose and water. The extracts are then shipped from anywhere to where the bottling factory is, taking all of the other substances out that you can easily add back later at the factory, this saves shipping costs tremendously. They add water, amino acids, preservatives and sucrose (or sweeteners like stevia) back together with a small amount of extract and there it is again.
It's almost always FAKE NEWS. The rest of the time it's a reporter without much expertise in the fiend that's unrealistically impressed by a good science fair project. If you look at genuine science fair awards, [like these Intel ones]( URL_0 ), you'll see the same kind of small, incremental breakthroughs that you see from regular scientists and engineers. These kids are older, 16-18 usually, and they got really deep into a narrow problem. They're probably really geniuses. I do believe that there are actually child geniuses that come up with cool ideas. But also that there are a tonne of kids who are helped (significantly) by their parents. The thing with coming up with alternatives is that you're working on existing ideas. Also, the thing of being a kid is that your time is valued as free. So let's say ACME wants to produce a water filter. They set up a team to design this water filter. They have to make a a list of requirements, specifications etc. Well, after a while they have this. So they can set to work, designing a new filter and subsequently testing, redesigning, testing some more, tweaking the design to be suitable for (mass) production and done, they have a filter. This filter already costs money because it had to be researched, concepts had to be tested and the best concept was further developed into the final product. The final product is not yet ready to be sold since it has to be tested first to see if it is safe for consumers, even more money is being spend here. So when the product finally hits the shelves it has to recoup all those R & D costs, production costs, overhead and a profit margin, because ACME is a company after all. Now along comes a bright kid with noble intentions. They set out to work in their spare time. They do some research and find an idea that they like and want to often improve upon. So they do some work, some testing, use household stuff, because that is what most 12 year old kids have to their disposal, and find a way to achieve the same result. They show this result to the world and present the cost, which consist only of the material costs. The kid doesn't include all the hours spent on it, because it was a hobby. Doesn't have overhead, since their parents pay for housing, food, internet, etc. Doesn't have a profit margin because they want to better the world and doesn't have product testing costs because it is a hobby project. Don't get me wrong, these kids are very bright. But a lot of costs from their final project are hidden and a lot of research is done already.
They do actually. Over time it starts breaking down the skin cells. You will see redness and inflammation and then tiny scratchy like lesions. This is from the antibacterial agent in soap. So first it helps to know how soap works. Normal soap, that doesn't specifically say antibacterial, works by essentially breaking down the cell membrane that surrounds the bacteria and then washes it away as you rinse your hands. Antibacterial soaps work similarly, just have a few more chemicals that really make sure the bacteria are taken care of. So now to how our skin avoids this. The outermost layer of skin, called the epidermis, is composed of multiple layers of cells that form as cells attached to a basement membrane actively divide and push the older cells outward. As the cells get pushed farther away from the basement membrane, they lose blood supply and begin to die and flatten out. At the same time they also undergo a process (keratinization) that makes them pretty resistant to a lot of wear and tear, as well as pretty impermeable to water and other liquids. So this barrier of dead cells (which is multiple cell layers thick) protects the still living and dividing cells underneath. This is why if you get soap in a fresh cut it stings, because you no longer have that protective barrier to shield the living cells underneath.
Light is bent or refracted by whatever it passes through. In a room of uniform temperature, the light is bent the same way everywhere so you see a uniform image. Heat causes turbulence in the air so the light is bent in a more chaotic manner. You're seeing this as a wavy image in the shadow. This is also what causes mirages and the wavy pattern that one can see on top of a car hood when the engine is hot. This happens not only to light, but any part of the electromagnetic spectrum. Radio signals are disrupted in the morning and the evening, thermal inversion. As the air quickly heats up or cools down, the radio waves are distorted by the same effect. Thus causing a distorted signal and static in the radio program you're listening to at those times.
For two reasons. 1. Your mind associates the game visual with known experiences. So it triggers the memories of being blinded by sunlight 2. Your autonomic nervous system learns to react based on previous experience. So your pupils will constrict to minimise light intake. So for a split second you do actually see less light...
I'm going to answer from an American perspective. The argument goes something like this. Public schools are really terrible. So the wealthy pay extra to get into private school. The less wealthy but still well off will move to areas where the public education is better than average. The poor get the worst public schools. But if everyone got vouchers, then the poor could go to a different school other than the public school they are assigned to. Because of this, schools will have to compete with each other in order to get more students, and therefore more money. No one will give their vouchers to the terrible schools, so they must change or die. The competition between the schools will lead to better education, and the poor will have more options. There are many different proposals on how to do this. Economists are generally split on the idea. But here's a recent survey so you can see the split yourself. URL_0
When you swipe your card, the machine is reading information on the card. One of the things it reads is a little message that says "Hey! I have a chip on me!" Now the machine knows, so it tells you to use the chip.
It is exactly like taking responsibility for diabetes, and then changing your lifestyle to account for it. It is a medical condition, but one that has both physical and psychological elements to it. If you don't fix the mental stuff, fixing the physical stuff does nothing. You're not taking responsibility for the addition, you're taking responsibility for turning to the abuse in the first place that lead to your addiction, and the things you did to fuel it. For example, you didn't have to turn to heroin in the first place, you were first to stick yourself with a needle, instead of finding an alternative method of dealing with your problems. Also, being addicted to heroin doesn't pardon you from robbing that liquor store, putting 17 bullets in that man's chest... Trying to say no to the heroin after you're hooked, and failing, and taking another injection, you're forgiven for that. After all, addiction is a disease. Just because something is a medical condition doesn't mean taking responsibility is not also part of the healing / maintenance process. Diabetes is a medical condition, but that doesn't mean the people with it don't need to take responsibility re: having a good diet, making sure they take their insulin on time. Phobias are also a medical condition, but that doesn't mean the person with the phobia shouldn't be taking responsibility and desensitising themselves under the guidance of a professional. If you were in a severe accident and you need physical therapy, that is 100% a medical condition, but following the instructions of the therapist even if they are not necessarily pleasant is still part of taking responsibility.
What does absolute zero really mean? --- The belief that 0K impies that all motion stopps is a popular misconception. Quantum mechanics tells us that bound particles cannot have an arbitrary amount of energy. Instead, they can only hop between energy levels. And the lowest of these energy levels is still not 0J. Thus, a bound particle can never have no motion energy. What absolute zero really means, is that all particles are in this lowest energy state, whih is called ground state. And Heisenberg's uncertainty principle tells us that this is impossible. What is a negative temperature? --- Negatve temperatures are not, in fact, colder than 0K. In a sense, all negative temperatures are even hotter than all positive temperatures. So.... how can the temperature of a system be negative? This is a consequence of the "proper" definition of temperature: **1/T=( & delta; S/ & delta; U)*_V,N_*.** Here, S is entropy, U is internal energy, V is Volume and N is the number of particles. What this equation says in words is, that 1/T (the inverse of temperature) is equal to the change in entropy over a variation of internal energy when volume and particle number are constant. Thus, **if the entropy of a system decreases as it gains internal energy its temperature will become negative.** This can only happen in very peculiar cases, as an increase in internal energy usually leads to an increase in entropy, but it is possible. Since those systems are kind of weird, they are not very stable. When a system of negative temperature comes in thermal contact with a "normal" system of positive temperature, the negative temperature system will lose energy to the normal system, because ubstable systems want to become stable if they can. That is why I said negative temperature systems are hotter than positive temperature systems: a system A is hotter than a system B, if A will lose thermal energy to B when they come into thermal contact. Which is exactly what happens here.
The flavours you mention all have one thing in common: sourness. Ketchup, all dressed and dill pickle are all vinegary flavours and sour/vinegar is not a flavour element that's very popular in American cuisine with a few notable exceptions (certain bbq sauces for example). Salt & vinegar or malt vinegar is extreeeeeeeeeeemely popular in the UK/Ireland, as are all things pickled. The American taste tends to run more towards sweet and salty. It all comes down to taste. Those flaming hot cheetos don't do so well in Scandinavia generally, and many Asian countries don't think much of cheese in general. Every country has its own preferred flavor profiles
The intuitive way I describe this concept is a watermelon seed on a table. When you push down on it, it will slip and squirt out to the side much faster than your finger pushed down. This is because the force imparted by your finger was redirected into sideways movement and that movement didn't lessen the force input from your finger. Imagine if you were just pushing the seed along the table. Certainly it would move, but only as fast as your finger did. Once it is moving with your finger there is no reason to continue any faster. In this same way as a boat moves with the wind it loses the thrust. Once the boat is moving with the wind from its perspective there is no wind at all! But if the boat moves perpendicular to the wind it can redirect the force to acceleration without losing the benefit of input force. This can allow acceleration without limit to the speed of the wind.
Thanks to the 25 Amendment the President is allowed to resign at any time they feel they are not capable of fulfilling the duties of the Presidency. Yes it automatically goes to the VP. The party then chooses a new VP and has that approved by the Senate. Yes. Just like Nixon. He stepped down instead of the likelihood of being impeached. Power was then transferred to Gerald Ford. In this case power would be transferred to Mike Pence. The President may resign any time he wants to. He's required to submit a letter of resignation to the Secretary of State that details the official date and time that the resignation takes affect. The Vice President then assumes the office of the Presidency. He would appoint a new Vice President who after confirmation from the Senate would become the new Vice President. Here's one thing to consider - if Trump quits because of scandal, it'll likely wrap up Pence as well. If any of the Russia stuff turns out to be true, that whole administration is going down in flames, and we'll have President Paul Ryan. That being said, if business entanglements cause Trump to step down, Pence will likely survive that and become president. In any event, with all the crazy shit that's happening, I can't imagine Trump will last 4 years. EDIT: I have now learned that Agnew resigned before Watergate for unrelated reasons. I did not research this and I am an awful human being. But the point remains that Pence could go down with the ship if the right rumors turn out to be true. > Does it really just go to the Vice President that easy? Yes. A president can voluntarily resign at any point. The VP becomes President and a new VP is nominated. That said I don't think this will happen. Pence is insurance. See all the things people are afraid of about Trump, Pence has more of. Trump may end up being a great leader, Pence is a fucking basket case. But if you remove Trump, you get Pence. Insurance. Remember that time you pissed your pants in school and ran away crying while the other students laughed at you? It's the same, except multiple countries laugh at you. Yes, it is that easy. There is a line of succession for the United States Presidency. We'll focus on the top levels. President < Vice President < Speaker of the House. If the President dies or resigns then the Vice President assumes the office. At this point they have full power as the United States President. There is nothing forcing them from abiding by the former Presidents agenda, they can do a complete 180 and change everything if they wanted. This is why you will see Presidents choosing their VPs when they align closely on ideas/politics. You generally won't see a republican President with a democrat VP. Now say if the President/VP were killed at the same time. The Speaker of the House would take the office and from there nominate a new VP which Congress would have to confirm. Congress will also have to elect a new Speaker of the House. I was also wondering what happens if, on inauguration day, the President Elect decided; "Nah. Nevermind." Another related question: what happens if an election gets zero candidates, as in no one would be willing to run for president? To add on to this, does the line of succession apply while he is president-elect prior to inauguration? Watch [this 4-minute video]( URL_0 ). **Note in particular** the phrase, *"But the interest of the Nation must always come before any personal considerations."* It is -possible- that Mr Trump will throw in the towel at some point -- but you can bet your left nut that it won't be for the same reason. First president to rage quit. Who wants in on this? while we are there, what is required to impeach the US president? What would happen if said president-elect was pre-impeached or quit before inauguration? Would it still go the VP? Since neither had sworn in would the rules of succession in the 25th amendment still apply?
There are two notes on top of one another. They're both the same note, such as both being a C note, but one is one octave above the other and has a much higher pitch. If you play a scale using notes like these, CDEFGABC with a much higher pitched CDEFGABC playing at the same time, the highest C of the first scale is the same sound as the lowest C of the second scale. So if you play it twice in a row, the low notes will sound like they're just continuing and becoming the high notes. From there, your brain takes over. Your brain is really good at making guesses and filling in for information it doesn't have, and one of the ways it does that is by recognizing patterns and completing them. When it hears this scale, it makes the assumption that it keeps going up forever and tells your ears that's what they're hearing. It doesn't matter that the highest note isn't getting any higher, because your brain has a range of sound it really likes and is already focusing in on the lower notes again, assuming that those high notes are continuing in the pattern it predicted. Try this: listen to a Shepard's Tone (they're all over youtube), and halfway through, take out your headphones or mute your computer for a second. When you turn the sound back on, that tone will have seemingly "reset" and sound lower again. That's because your brain is starting over with the pattern it's interpreting, and it always wants to start with that specific middle range of sound it likes. URL_0 Explains it better than I ever could.
I think it also has a lot to do with their "ick" factor. They are very fast, get very large, are hard to kill, and make a really grody crunch/splat combination when you step on them. I think most people around where I live don't necessarily associate them with filth, because in a city with a high population density, some insects are inevitable. But we do know that they thrive in unsanitary, dark, humid conditions, where food supply is open and available and caustic chemicals (such as Clorox or Lysol or other sanitary disinfectants) aren't present to ward them off. So even if my house is spotless, if my neighbor is gross, I could end up with her roaches. I think a lot of it is that we know roaches *prefer* filth, so seeing them in your home (even if they're just seeking warmth because the season is changing) gives everyone the shock of feeling like their house is dirty. I think another thing that makes people hate them and think they're unsanitary (at least in the southern United States) is their tendency to end up in places that other pests don't invade. Example: yes, mice may chew into your dry goods, but the odds of you waking up to one being in the bed with you are slim to none. Flies are gross, but they don't end up desperately flapping into your hair, getting entangled. Spiders are cool (except when they're inconveniently located), but they don't tend to spaz out at you when you open a cabinet or closet. I lived in a nightmare rental property once and we had roaches so badly that you had to shake out the bedsheets before going to bed. Or the time one ran down my naked back because it was chilling in the folds of my hung up bathrobe. Or the time that I woke up in the nude and one was preening his antennae while resting on my bare chest. Fucking A. The worst was when one had decided to take a nap inside of my hairdryer. I did not become aware of this until the fan blades chopped him into tiny pieces and the heating element fried his guts into crispy chunks and shot them all into my freshly washed, wet hair. So glad I don't live there anymore. But I'll be damned, I'll still take cockroaches over spider crickets. Any day. Fuck those things. Edit: missing word I'm in pest control and I always enjoy the fact that people are disgusted by roaches. It's humorous to me since roaches are disgusted by us. If you touch one it will run away and start cleaning the oil from your skin off of itself. They're associated with being dirty and there because the area isn't clean. It's the same way we find lice disgusting. Yes it's kinda yucky that little bugs are living in your hair, but they're associated with unclean people as well. Lice actually prefer clean hair to dirty hair. And they can infest anyone, regardless of their cleanliness. Just like cockroaches. I think ultimately, it comes down to the fact that as children we are *told* cockroaches are disgusting so we grow up having this belief and passing it on to other people. roaches are more than just unpleasant to look at, they also have the potential to spread diseases through cross-contamination as well as cause some significant allergic reactions. A cockroach’s typical diet consists of feces, trash, and uncovered food, giving them ample opportunity to come into contact with dangerous bacteria and then spread it all over your next meal. It’s believed that roaches can transmit a wide variety of diseases in this manner, including gastroenteritis, dysentery, cholera, leprosy, typhoid fever, and salmonella, as well as also carrying parasitic worm larvae on their bodies. Even if food is kept well covered, the mere presence of roaches in your house means that they still could be tracking their tiny germ-ridden footprints throughout your home and kitchen, across counter tops, and all over plates and glassware. An equally serious problem with cockroach infestations is their potential to cause allergic reactions and worsen existing cases of asthma. Certain people are allergic to proteins found in cockroach feces and saliva, the exposure to which can result in skin rashes, coughing, wheezing, and shortness of breath. These same roach allergens can also trigger serious asthma attacks, especially in children. Asthma alone can be a life-threatening disease, and a large portion of asthmatics are also allergic to cockroaches, leading to much worse symptoms when they are in prolonged proximity with theses insects. That metallic smell is unnerving. I do not like how they show by their very existence what you thought your clean house was is not. My dad used to tell me stories about how he watched a roach crawl on a toothbrush and shit on it. Makes you wonder what they do to your face when you are sleeping. But the worst aspect in my mind is sometimes you know it is only going to get worse. Lived in an apartment once where the idiots there only sprayed the specific rooms with roaches. I saw a single roach on the first night. By the end of my lease, they were in my freezer and there was no place safe from them, and if I called the landlord or bombed the place, they were just going to come back. That sucks. Properly run complexes annually spray top to bottom the entire building. I dated a guy in high school whose guardians' house (his grandparents) was INFESTED with German roaches. I am not a squeamish girl by any means, but this was bad. You'd walk in the front door to a dark house, and roaches would scatter up the walls, across the floor, and across the ceiling away from the light from the open door. They were inside the dishwasher, the oven, the fridge and the freezer. The house just had this... *smell* to it. And it stuck to him, his hair, his skin, his clothes. The house was a mobile home and had a built-in radio/speaker system, with the tuning dial mounted on the wall in the living room. Inside the plastic covering of the tuning dial was absolutely filled with discarded egg cases. When I realized that I just recoiled. I came over one night to have taco salad with him and his grandparents. I had ingredients spread out on the kitchen table and was having to flick roaches away from them because they kept crawling toward the food. I was paranoid that I would find one in my taco salad and so it was hard to be hungry... The ex ended up finding one in the sour cream on top of his salad in the bowl... he picked it out (still alive) and just tossed it away... and kept eating. Yeah I was full after that. I didn't stay with him much longer. I started to worry I would bring home hitch hikers to my own house... somehow his grandmother's car also had roaches in it. But despite all that, roaches don't gross me out or make me freak out. The place I moved into last year had a residual minor infestation (German) from the previous tenant. I used a gel bait and an insect growth regulator, and within a month they were totally gone. What your are referring to are West German Cock Roaches. There are many species of roaches some are pests and the majority you would never see in our life. I have kept dubia roaches to feed my spider collection. They don't stink, they can't live in your house if they escape, can't fly, can't climb glass. you would never I kept them unless I showed you them because they don't even have a smell. Some roaches are called litter bugs due to the fact they only eat decaying vegetation and if you saw one, you would think it was a beetle. TL/DR it depends on the species of roach, not all of them are pests. Fun fact. Crickets are more closely related to cockroaches than they are to a grasshopper. I hate crickets. They are gross assholes. Do not underestimate the power of the Raid commercial. Millions of us have been indoctrinated with that message for a life time. I raise Dubia roaches for my bearded dragon. They've actually really grown on me this last year. They bumble around like idiots, can't fly, hardly smell unless you've left food in there and have actually grown used to me so that when I give them food, they come running for it, some riding on the backs of larger ones, no fucks given for the giant hand in the sky that brings delicious bananas. I'm not sure how id feel about, say, german roaches, but I've found Dubia to be quite endearing in their own way. I've totally gotten over the ick factor and will handle my full grown adults and check out their internal egg sacks to see if they're pregnant and let the males run across my hands or pick up nymphs and sex them. When they get scared they freeze in place and some will even roll up like rollie pollies, which is actually pretty cute. I'm personally petrified of roaches, call it a phobia. If it's a bee, spider etc I'm okay if I run into one but put a roach in front of me and I'm sprinting like Usain Bolt. My apartment is locked down with roach traps and pesticides just to be on the safe side but I can't even stand to see a dead one let alone one that's crawling and alive. It probably goes back to when I was a kid, spent the night at a friends house. I guess his house wasn't very clean because in the middle of the night I felt a lot of tickling movement in my sleeping back that woke me up. I got up, turned on the light and open my sleeping bag only to find about 6 huge roaches just crawling inside. It was the nastiest feeling in the world and scared the shit out of me for the rest of my life. The feeling of having them all over me was beyond disgusting. It's for the same instinctual reaction someone might get upset or defensive for being called a racist or sexist. In modern households, when you see a cockroach, deep down you know it's because you did something wrong. Maybe you weren't on top of your pest prevention procedures, maybe you forgot to spray, maybe you left that cardboard box from the grocery store in your house too long, maybe you were a little tardy in washing your dishes. Whatever the reason, a cockroach is a sign that your house isn't as clean or as well-tended for as it should be, and is a reproach and reminder that you should have done better. I have a paralyzing fear of roaches, and I've never fully understood why. And I'm not exaggerating this either. My college dorm building was infested with them, and seeing them was a fairly common occurrence. Other people would just step on them or even pick them and take them outside (I just shivered typing that). I, on the other hand, would literally freeze until someone near me would take care of it. I'm not proud of it, but them's the facts. I think, like others have said, it's that they're so associated with uncleanliness. My mom hates them almost as much as I do, because she was forced to live in some pretty nasty places while on welfare. I'm sure that's where I picked it up. There's also the fact that they freakin adapt to our methods of killing. Guillotine? Fuck it, I'll live without a head for a while. Atom bomb? Eh, I'll probably survive. No food? I'll eat literally anything, including the paper in your books. And they fight back. They can carry hepatitis and other diseases and can actually transmit them. Chemical warfare, I tell ya. Plus the stories of them crawling in people's ears. I read enough Animorphs as a kid to know their real plan there. Well people find them disgusting because they tend to love filth and thrive in garbage so they're associated with said filth. For me though I just have an irrational fear of them. Their large size, erratic and almost unnatural movement and speed and their capability to fly (clumsily and usually right into your face) is what I cannot stand. But this is just the American roach. Those small german ones don't bother me and the ones without wings even less. In general though I really dislike all flying insects. I have the same fear of large moths.
To say Obama is the best thing to ever happen to America is ludicrous. Obama isn't the worst president, but he's certainly not the best. I don't want to get bogged down in left and right wing politics too much, but here is a list of his shortcomings, as I see them: 1. Didn't push for a public option on Obamacare. Now Obamacare is a private insurance mandate with benefits, but nothing to regulate policy cost. 2. He had basically no response to the Libyan crisis. He said using chemical weapons was a red line, and then proceeded to stare at the red line doing nothing. Libya is still a failed state to this day. 3. He said his administration would be the most transparent in U.S. History. It has been one of the most secretive. 4. He said he would stop intelligence agencies spying on U.S. Citizens without due cause (such as a warrant). Surveillance of the U.S. Citizenry has been greatly expanded under Obama. 5. Obama said he would withdraw troops from Iraq as soon as feasible. He did it basically in-line with the Bush timeline. 6. Perhaps the biggest reason Obama is disliked by so many is that he turned out to be a bunch of hot air. He ran on a campaign that promised change, he seemed genuinely passionate about improving the country, and he gave hope to people from all social strata. Then, almost as soon as he took office (after he was re-elected for some of the more egregious betrayals), he pulled a 180 and turned out to be an entirely average run-of-the-mill white-collar corporate shill. His approval rating is very high right now. You are getting a skewed view from Reddit and Facebook. There are a lot of "reasons" along a spectrum of clear to speculative. It's at least in part due to some very polarizing signature policies and campaign promises like the Affordable Care Act, the Iran nuclear agreement, etc. Conservatives in particular were apoplectic about these policies. It's also due in part to long-standing intractable American political issues like abortion rights and gun control, which continue to be very divisive and make political bases that much more rancorous. The President also took office at a perilous economic time, and while the economy has undoubtedly improved under his Administration, those improvements have not benefitted many in the working class in a meaningful way, so that different leadership may seem more appealing. On a more speculative end, a chronic problem of the American left is a particular brand of intellectual paternalism and ethical hubris, which President Obama may seem to well embody The right tends to perceive him as talking down to them- explaining that if they just put their thinking caps on, they'll see the correct ideas. It's hard to gauge fairly on the aggregate, but it seems possible that such a posture is particularly hard for many white Americans to hear from our first black President because race-oriented tension, if not overt racism influences perceptions of both his policies and demeanor. In my opinion, the Obama Administration was largely a good one, beset by an obstructionist Congress and our culture's shared inability to compartmentslize hot social political issues. However, while I will miss many of his policies, I must confess that what I will probably miss most is the same thing many people around the world not as directly impacted by American politics - his thoughtful, elegant, and engaging persona. Changing political climates and issues make direct comparisons very hard, but in the long run I think people will view him more favorably than they do now.
Standard shipping (slow): Multiple orders are put inside of a container and the container's only shipped when it's full. Express shipping (fast): Orders are shipped independently, and so don't depend on others. Logistic may differ from company to company, but that's the concept. *(Don't remember the source but I had the same doubt and that's what I found in a couple of forums)*
I would assume that you are talking about Alcohol deydrogenase. enzymes can be specific for certain molecules up to a point in their active site(where the molecule of interest attaches), they just kinda look for certain parts on a molecule, like groups like alcohol groups and their sizes, that sort of thing. So imagine an enzyme sort of like a puzzle that is complete except for one piece that is in the middle, now imagine that you have several pieces that are around the same size as the hole in the puzzle, all with at least one connecting piece that can connect to a slot in the hole. Not all of the pieces are necessarily what you are looking for, but they can to some degree fit into the puzzle. the same thing is true with Alcohol dehydrogenase, it "looks" for small alcohols, so although we would may want it to react with only ethanol, if we were to put it into the presence of methanol it would help carry out the reaction as the methanol fits well enough into its active site that it can react. Since this is a rather chemistry specific question, I'll go ahead and give you the ELI18 version. The name of the enzyme is Alcohol Dehydrogenase. The enzyme's function is to help to degrade a fairly wide range of alcohols, most of which are toxic. For example isopropanol and/or amyl alcohols found in some alcoholic beverages. Ethanol (grain alcohol) is probably the least toxic of the possible targets the enzyme can attach to. A.D. does this by converting the alcohol into an aldehyde, by removing two hydrogens next to the (OH) group. In most cases the resulting aldehyde is much less toxic than the alcohol. For example, the A.D. produces ethyl aldehyde (aka acetaldehyde) out of ethanol. (This has a characteristic odor of beer or bread dough you can smell from the breath of people who are intoxicated.) From there ethyl aldehyde is converted into acetic acid and then conjugated into the compound Acetyl-Coenzyme A. Acetyl-CoA is used in a wide variety of processes in cells, including energy production. But, in the case of methanol or ethylene glycol (antifreeze) the resulting aldehyde produced is formaldehyde. Not only is this more toxic than methanol by itself. The formaldehyde is subsequently converted into formic acid with is yet more toxic than either formaldehyde or methanol. Methanol is only found in small concentrations in nature. Most commonly as a trace side product in fermented foods. So few organisms have evolved mechanisms to deal with large amounts of it. Ethylene glycol is a wholly man-made chemical. *TL;DR: the main function of Alcohol Dehydrogenase is to detoxify a wide range of alcohols. But in the case of methanol or ethylene glycol, it does the opposite, creating products that are more toxic, not less. These two compounds are rarely or never found in nature so few organisms have evolved defenses against large amounts of them.*
One of the design goals for what became the Internet was to be tolerant of failure. If some lines get cut, the Internet just routes around them. As long as there is still power and one intact line connecting that area to the rest of the world (whether it's a physical cable or a satellite link), the Internet will continue to work.
The Body raises its' temperature as this kills/slows the infection. Human cells can tolerate the slight increase so only the infection is targeted. You feel cold for two reasons: One is your body itself making you feel cold, this makes you shiver to heat up(and also seek blankets and heaters). The other is you sweat profusely, so as soon as you feel too warm, you seek some cool air or get out from under the blanket. This causes cold air to hit you and the sweat instantly chills on your skin.
Err. I haven't noticed this to happen in any online game so thought I'd start with that. Video games online don't use much bandwidth so getting a faster connection doesn't really impact them that much. (Unless it comes with better latency) Games are mostly impacted by latency or ping, this is how long it takes for a piece of information to get from your computer to the host. Some games select a player with a good connection as a host and others use a central server. The graphics are rendered locally with just the information about what movements the players are making sent back and forth. Having played NHL, Madden, and NBA 2k I have never noticed long delays. Are you playing one of these games on a computer and the other on TV? Delays in console gaming especially can be very long if your TV isn't in "game mode" Most modern TVs put a 1/2 second delay on what they show so that they can upscale, and insert additional frames to make things look smoother- this obviously negatively impacts gaming.
We have markers on our blood cells and so if we transfer wrong blood, it coagulate inside you and you die **Disclaimer: Please note that this is all an ELI5 simplification; it's the basic idea, but in real life it's more complicated, and it's seriously, seriously dangerous. So please don't go making any medical decisions based upon what I've written here.** With that said: Well, your description in your question here is not accurate, so let's back up a bit: Generally speaking, a person can accept blood transfusions from multiple different blood types. The exception is people with O Negative blood; they can only accept O Negative blood. They make up... I dunno, 5% or so of the population. Now, going further: There is a thing called "A", and a thing called "B", and a thing called "Positive". You can have any or all or none of these things in your blood. For example, "A Positive" means you have A, and you have Positive, but you don't have B. "AB Negative" means you have A, and you have B, but you don't have Positive. Note that "Negative" is not a thing - Negative just means you don't have Positive. And "O" is also not a thing - O just means you have neither A nor B. If someone with some thing in their blood donates their blood to you, you sure better have that thing in your own blood. Otherwise, your body's immune system will notice that thing, think it's some foreign invader, and try to fight it off. This could kill you. So, for example, if you've got A Positive blood, then you don't have B, so you better not get a transfusion from someone who has B. So you better not get a transfusion from a B Positive, a B Negative, an AB Positive, or an AB Negative. But you can get transfusions from anybody else - O Positive, O Negative, A Positive, A Negative - not just from other A Positives. A couple "special" types are therefore O Negative (they can donate to anyone, and are therefore called "universal donors") and AB Positive (they can accept from anyone, and are therefore called "universal recipients").
Volkswagen isn't being sued over the pollution that the cars are putting out, they're being sued because they altered their emissions standards testing to report that the vehicles they produce are more efficient and create fewer carbon emissions. It's a case of false advertising and a "defective" product. Vintage cars, or cars not built for mass production purposes also have different standards, and may not have to meet the same requirements. VW sold their product to customers with the expectation that it would meet requirements required to legally operate. Not only did it not meet the expectation, causing several thousand motorists to now have cars that they can't legally drive, but did so intentionally and went out of their way to hide that fact from consumers and the government. They also marketed their diesel cars as being more environmentally friendly due to testing at such low emissions. That's a kind of corporate villainy you would expect to find on a Captain Planet episode.
*Musician There will be people who do think they're in key but still singing sharp or flat. Sometimes its due to change in hearing from aging but also could just be an untrained/lazy ear. Theres probably many people who know they're out of key and have no business singing in the first place, but simply don't care because they can't hear the horrible dissonance they're creating. There are some who do, and some who don't. Tone deaf people cannot distinguish the different pitches in music, so they can't imitate the melody. But they *can* train themselves to sing in key, like if they have a teacher to correct them or record themselves and then play it back. Other people who sing off key can hear themselves, but have difficulty staying in pitch. This can be more easily remedied by breaking down the melody in a song and then imitating it until you can hear yourself matching each note, then doing it over and over again. I fall into the latter category and can always hear myself when I hit an off note, so I imagine my voice is like a keyboard and try going up a semi-tone or tone until I can match it. Interestingly, it's more common for people to be able to tell if a note is flat than if it's sharp, so if you're hearing yourself singing off key, try sliding **up** into a note until you hit it.
This website is great at breaking down what you need to know URL_0
Smoking has been practiced in one form or another since ancient times. Tobacco and various hallucinogenic drugs were smoked all over the Americas as early as 5000 BC in shamanistic rituals and originated in the Peruvian and Ecuadorian Andes. Many ancient civilizations, such as the Babylonians, Indians and Chinese, burnt incense as a part of religious rituals, as did the Israelites and the later Catholic and Orthodox Christian churches. As far as why someone would decide to be the first, no one knows for sure. Tobacco and marijuana are naturally occurring, so for what we know it's possible that there was a fire that burned some of these crops, causing the effects. It wouldn't take long to discover the source and for that to become a trend among a society. Almost certainly happened because people spent time around fires which meant inhaling smoke. Inevitably people would learn that certain things burned produced a good feeling like tobacco or marijuana. Probably wasn't intentional. Some ancient human chucked some leaves on the fire and discovered that they had mind-altering effects. Human ingenuity took it from there. I could ask the same question about how and why humans decided to start drinking cow's milk Ancient humans would have spent a good chunk of their lives sitting around fires, and thus, throwing things into fires and looking for things to throw into fires. People figured out thousands of years ago that certain ones produces pleasurable or intoxicating smokes.
It's a response to danger. The different parts of your brain can be very bad at communicating with each other, so the bit of your brain that responds to danger (which evolved very early and is close to the brain-stem, and therefore very powerful) doesn't know that the danger is only imagined or on tv or in a book so it triggers the danger-responses that are supposed to help you survive. The part of your brain that knows there is no actual danger overrides some of that fear response, which is why you don't (usually) climb on top of your bookcase every time you open a Stephen King novel, but as this part of your brain developed later and is further from your brain-stem, the message gets through a little late. When someone jumps out at you and shouts 'boo' you scream and your heart rate goes up for a moment before you very quickly calm down because the "DANGER!" message is sent out to your body faster than the "That's just my brother" message. The physical responses you notice are the effects of the rush of adrenaline that is sent through your body by your scaredy-cat brain - in a really dangerous situation this adrenaline would help you run away or fight to survive. You feel it in your stomach because adrenaline changes the way your body digests sugars - this is why some people get diarrhoea when they are nervous about something. The hairs on the back of the neck thing is the same thing you see in animals when they get agitated - you've probably seen the fur stand up in a line down a dog or cat's back at some point. In humans it's left over from the days when we had fur, and it acts as a visible signal to other individuals that we are dangerous and not to be messed with right now and also makes you look larger (if you have fur).
It can, my 2003 Ford Focus has it. The wires are very thin and embedded inside the windscreen. It's a very common option in the UK. Edit. For those of little faith, Google 'Ford Quickclear Windscreen' and prepare for enlightenment. I did some reading and everything I found said it basically comes down to price. Some companies have made models with front defrost, but it's expensive, and the windshield is expensive to replace. Since front windshields are more likely to get chipped or cracked, they don't put them on cars intended to be inexpensive. Not ELI5, but this [post]( URL_0 ) might help you understand. I could be wrong, but didn't Ford get rid of heated windshields because they mess up red light cameras? The metallic coating reflects the flash from the camera and ruins the photo, meaning no ticket or revenue for the city. I drive a 1995 F250 7.3 powerstroke. Use the hot steamy kisses of all the women I pick up to clear my windshield. Ford had this back to 1987 on some Lincolns with cold weather packages. The windshield had a thin transparent sheet of gold sandwiched between the layers. Upon activation the alternator was full fielded and 140 amps of electricity was delivered to heat the windshield. Really effective when it worked, an incredibly expensive clusterfuck when it burned up the alternator, and harness when it didn't work. Need a new windshield...$3K please, and that was if they were available. Automotive HVAC engineer here! My job literally is responsible for windshield clearing. As other people have pointed out, there are some cars that use the heated wiring up front. I sat in a Range Rover that had it. They were very, very fine zigzag wires across the windshield that could only be seen when focusing your eyes on it. When driving, it wasn't noticable in the slightest. Something that new cars have now is what's called a PTC. This is essentially an electric heater that provides warm air before the engine has had time to warm up the coolant running through the heater core. The air that comes out of it isn't hot, but it's still warm and instantly available on a cold day. Also, most cars offer remote start, which does wonders for clearing the glass in the morning. Some do. Just many thin wires instead of thick ones. It was a 400$ upgrade in my range rover. Curious to see what other vehicles offer it Edit:dirty and dark picture but here's proof URL_0 Some cars do have this. Most don't because people in hot places would have no use for this, and it costs money to give this to a car. Front windshields get broken lots more than rear windows, so they need to be simple and cheap or the hot place people would be mad about their money. edit: simpler words for the subreddit this post will go to I was about to say "yeah right, the lines would wreck your visibility and you can just blast the heater on the windshield vent" but then I realized I have no idea what I'm talking about because my idea of what a car has is based largely off my totally barebones 2000 Corolla. My 2016 Subaru Crosstrek has them where the windshield wipers come to rest. Has made all the difference in the world on cold crappy days. This must be an annual favourite question. Here are a few more threads of the same question: [One]( URL_1 ) [Two]( URL_3 ) [Three]( URL_0 ) [Four]( URL_2 ) My favourite answer is that the windshields would be very expensive to replace. And while we're on the topic, why in the world don't we have heated roads by now??? This is one of those great simple questions we never think to ask. If I were given the choice, I'd want a front windshield defrost before the almost standard rear one. All the vehicles, other than pickup trucks, had rear defrost. It's already been pointed out that some Ford's have it, and to my knowledge they hold the rights to it by patent or something similar. I remember my dad's 2003 S Type Jaguar had it, because at the time Ford owned Jaguar. I'm confused. My front windshield defrosts faster without those lines. By back windshield takes forever. You can buy electric 12v windshield heaters or you can put your Sun shade on the outside of the car, they even make ice shades just for this. URL_0 Just throw hot water on it straight out of the kettle!!! It wont break your windscreen i promise!!! This thread has turned into a lot of "I have a [car and year] and it [has/doesn't have] a heated windshield" My parents Volvos both have them. You can only really see them if you focus on them, otherwise it's unnoticeable. VERY helpful in freezing rain though:) Some cards have it, but they are EXTREMELY expensive to replace in comparison to the regular ones, and your front window is much more likely to get broken. My 2015 "Cold Weather Package" Jeep Cherokee has defrost lines in the bottom corners of the windshield for the areas the wipers can't reach. But not the whole windshield. You know what's worse? When it's so hot and humid outside that running the a/c inside the car fogs up the windshield and creates condensation that doesn't go away unless you constantly run the windshield wipers. Fucking Florida... G-Wagons, W463, have them. Be careful what you wish for though, they are pricey when it comes time for replacement! Another tech thing that I wish all cars had, electric heaters for instant heat until the engine gets to operating temp. If you have ever driven a diesel in a cold environment you definitely understand! It's an eternity to defrost because your starting with the heat. Start with the AC and let it clear up. Once the window is clear switch to heat. It should only take 30 seconds maximum on AC to clean it off. Fogged windows are due to temperature differential, and unless you have electric instant heat your gonna have to do this dance haha. It can. It's an option on Mercedes Benz S-class in the United States, for example. Ford owns a patent for this in the UK, where demand for such a feature is much higher due to the climate and thus offering it as a widely available feature across a brand of mass-market, lower-end cars actually makes economic sense. They call it [Quickclear]( URL_0 ) and it's been available for decades. If you live in the us, thank our ridiculous federal government, who has to manage every aspect of our lives. We lose a lot of features on our cars, thanks to the dot and other dumb agencies. Ex: We can't have glass headlights, because god forbid someone might get cut, but it's ok if you can't see 10ft in front of your car at night, since your plastic lights fogged over. Although it sounds like a nice idea to have electric defrost on our front windshields, I think there are several reasons that it's not done (or commonly done): 1) The air vents and heater core are already up front, so hot air is a very easy implementation that's already been in place for a long time. 2) The visible wires across the windshield would be annoying to the driver. The wires in the rear windshield aren't as annoying because you don't look out of the rear as often and don't need to see as much detail... and people are already used to it. 3) It would increase cost and the majority of people (especially in hot weather climates) wouldn't want to pay extra for it. My friend's Jaguar has them. I figured it was an extra fancy option for luxury cars, but someone mentioned it's a common option in the UK, so maybe Jaguar just has it all the time because British. They're extremely thin and rather wavy, unlike the rather thick and grid-shaped wires (most?) cars have in the back window. You don't notice them when you don't look for them, but as a passenger, it can be irritating to stare through them. As a driver I almost never notice them, but when he's driving, I sometimes just look out of the side window to get my eyes off the wobbly lines. Not sure how that works, probably because you're focused on the road for driving reasons, and not just for bored sightseeing. So personally, I would say it has two reasons. It's expensive to put in there (or at least more expensive than not putting it in there), so warm regions don't have it for the two to four weeks of snow and frost they have. And it can be a bit distracting, and the front shield should be as clear as possible, so you shouldn't have them if you won't use them. your front windshields after a certain date are made of [glass-plastic-glass laminate]( URL_0 ). This is likely to have very different thermal characteristics than straight glass windows (like the rear window, which is tempered glass). "defrosting" comes in two forms. The first involves removing condensation build-up on the inside of the windshield. Typically, this requires a heater and blower to get the air temperature up enough to absorb the moisture that humans emit when they exhale. Secondarily, this normalizes the temperature of the windshield with the temperature of the high humidity air being exhaled (which gets mixed with the cool air inside the vehicle to create a lower temperature, super saturated atmosphere that will condense moisture/frost on anything even a few degrees colder). Next, there's the shit on the outside of the windshield. Frost mostly. Ever try to "defrost" a windshield with snow on it? Takes forever. and generally only creates lines between the snow. There's a certain "ice mass" that these types of defrosting systems can tolerate and they work on outside frost due to the high thermal conductivity of glass. Throw a layer of plastic laminate between inner and outer glass layers and they probably don't work very well at all. Now.... if you were able to invent a electrically resistive (in a manner that produced a thermal by-product) plastic that could be used as a laminate for front windshields, I'd bet you could make quite a bit of money selling it to the automotive industry.
Because it's not (authentic) Cheese. It's made out of at least two different kinds of cheese and processed, therefor making it a cheese product.
Java is a four star hotel. It has most everything you need and there are expectations on your behavior. JavaScript is the motel 6. It's quick and dirty, but it will do the job and you can do whatever. JSON is not going to let you spend the night, but it'll give you directions and info on the hotels. Java is a cross-platform, strongly-typed, object-oriented programming language. It runs everything from your phone (unless you use an iPhone at which point... Eh, you're beyond help actually) to your coffee-maker to web applications to your watch. Java applications run client or server side, meaning they'll be on your local machine as standalone applications or running on a server, feeding web pages to your browser or crunching data to put into a database. JavaScript is a cross-browser, dynamically-typed object-oriented scripting language. It is (mostly) responsible for supplying the client-side scripting to webpages that make them look really awesome and do cool animations, have menus and supply dynamically loaded content. There's a lot more to it that there isn't room to explain. JSON stands for JavaScript Object Notation. It's not a programming language but a way to easily, minimally transfer data. It's simply a textual representation of a complex data structure. Every programming language that can communicate with another device, application, IP address etc... Is able to use JSON to communicate (whether they support it or not is an implementation detail). For clarity: I'll try to explain strong vs dynamic typing. It'll be tough and probably not make sense if you're not a developer. Strongly typed languages force you to declare the type of variable you want before you use it. In Java if I want a number, I must declare it as a number and use it as such. In JavaScript I can have a variable be a number but then give it an age property and a street address if I want. HTH Java and JavaScript are programming language. Beside name they have nothing in common that other programming languages have and there is lot of languages that are more similar to Java then JavaScript is. JavaScript is lightweighted and was created to be used on website without being able affect the computer that is using the page. It is used as interpreted language. Java was created as fully-flagged OO language for general purpose. Is used as compiled language that run on virtual machine. JSON is just standard for storing data and is based on JavaScript syntax.
They tailor the tastes to the local market so they'll sell more, but there might not be much call for these items in other markets. For example, Big Macs are pretty popular world wide, but in India, not many people eat beef. Instead, McDonalds has the Maharaja Mac, which uses chicken patties and has a spicy sauce in place of the secret sauce to make it a better fit there. With both regular Big Macs and chicken sandwiches available in other countries, there's not much of a reason to make the Maharaja available outside of India. Likewise, pork is popular in Germany, so there's a Germany-only pork sandwich available as part of the regular menu. Meanwhile, the McRib is a special item available occasionally because a lot of people will get them when they're first introduced, but then sales tail off rapidly.
It's a bad movie with a bad script and, somehow, actors usually considered good. It's lameness, coupled with the effort taken to actually produce and distribute the thing, make it a unique candidate for recognition on an Internet that likes laughing at people who try too hard. That's my take on it, any way.
This is a reference to the ongoing industrial dispute at Southern Rail, which is partly about proposals to have drivers, instead of guards, opening and closing train doors. The actual fear appears to be that this downgrades the job of the guard and puts them at risk of redundancy. I live in Germany, where drivers usually control the doors. They close the doors either when monitoring equipment (which may simply be mirrors) tell them the doors are clear, or on a signal given by a guard on the train or at the station. [Here, for example, is a train driver using on-board monitors]( URL_0 ): in other systems there may be, for example, monitors mounted on station platforms. That's fine, if you have these systems in place. And this does seem to be quite safe: I don't remember hearing about any incidents. Also, though, modern trains have doors that will open again if they detect that somebody is stuck in them, and can't be driven off until all the doors are firmly closed. If these systems are not in place -- the driver doesn't have a clear view of all the doors (a particular problem on crowded or curved platforms) and it's possible to drive the train with doors open -- then you certainly could have a potential problem with safety. Conductor and Driver are pretty much completly useless. Some subways in Paris don't have drivers or conducters anymore. Neither do trains in Spain around the parts of Barcelona.
There are no *perfectly* flat objects being made today. Even the mirrors on giant telescopes have fluctuations on the surface. If one wanted to make a fairly flat stone surface with only stone tools available one could use water in a bucket and grind a disk (or whatever) so that the edges and surface are even with the still water. Metals can be pounded flat pretty easily. Polish them to see how flat they are and work at it some more if necessary.
Honey is rich in sugars, which means it is rich in energy. That means it is a food that is prized by a lot of animals. As such bees have evolved to make a large surplus of honey, many times what they need to survive so that when some other animal breaks into the hive and eats the honey the hive does not starve to death. The question is flawed. The bees do in fact eat that much, but they need a surplus if some of the honey goes missing from something breaking in and stealing it or if conditions are bad and they don't produce very much of it.
When sunlight hits water or ice in a cloud, it refracts, bending in direction. With small clouds, some sunlight bounces around inside and eventually makes it out towards the ground. Rain clouds are larger, so less sunlight makes it through the cloud without being redirected away. Less sunlight passing through makes for darker clouds.
Despite what you might think there aren't as many common medications available. Also, pharmacies only need to keep enough of any given medication in stock as long as they get frequent shipments every few days. They determine which medications are the most highly used by local physicians and stock those up enough to last until their next delivery with a safety supply always in reserve. And if they get dangerously low all they need to do is make a special order that comes a few days early. But pharmacies are getting shipments of medications all the time so this really shouldn't be a problem. Another thing that helps is that shelf life of most medications are at least a year. So even if you have to stock some exotic medication that no one really ever gets prescribed you can keep a small supply tucked away somewhere and have a computer system track when it is going to expire and you need to toss the old stuff out. They don't. No where near it in fact. It's simply that most prescribers stick to a small list of drugs they are comfortable with and local pharmacies adapt to local prescribers. Anything unusual can be ordered and in the next day. Theres a lot of things pharmacies can do to predict trends. For example, coming up to bank holidays we order in surplus antibiotics, morning after pills and other contraceptives. We try to have a nine month supply of the more popular contraceptive pills so if someone comes in and wants their six month supply we can give it and still have enough for three other women to get a one month supply. At the end of August we get a big delivery of our flu vaccines, which we can top up if needed. Our computer system keeps track of sales statistics for each of our medications, we try to get people to leave in their prescriptions on file. It makes it easy for them, we get it ready, text them when they can collect and text them again of they havent collected after two weeks. But it also helps us predict what medications will be needed each month/week. Our pharmacy gets twice daily deliveries from our main supplier, and once daily delivery from our other suppliers so if the customer is in early and we dont have their meds in stock, we can have it for that afternoon. But we would still have a lot of medication readily available on the shelf, some of which we haven't dispensed in a year. Source: Pharmacy dispenser. Pharmacies often work in networks. Common medications will be kept on site, and less common ones will be kept at a larger pharmacy or central supply hub and sent to the pharmacy as needed. You may not notice this if you live in a city where things are transferred quickly and pharmacies are larger, but if you live in a smaller town you will often have to wait a few days or even a week to have some meds filled. I worked at small pharmacy for many years. it doesn't take a lot of space to store small bottles of 1000 pills. and we would get about 4-5 shipments per day from different companies for our supply. They dont. I use to take a lot of medications and different pharmacies had to special order or were out of stuff all the time. But, when I was using, I use to regularly dream of having free reign behind a pharmacy counter with a big bag taking everything I wanted.
The selected temperature isn't necessarily the temperature coming out of the vents. If you're trying to warm/cool a room to a certain temperature, it puts out more extreme air. Room is 70, you want 72, the heater comes out at 75. Room is 75, you want 72, the AC puts out 70. A heater set to 72 will put hot air into the room if the temperature drops below 72 until the temperature reaches 72 again, then it shuts off. If the temperature is above 72 it does nothing. It could get to 110 and the heater will not try to cool the room to 72 because it only heats. The opposite is true for A/C. Set at 72 it kicks on if the temp gets above 72 and pumps cool air into the room until the temperature gets back to 72 then it shuts off. If you set the AC to 72 in the winter and your house is lower than 72, the AC does nothing. This is different than automatic environmental control like in a higher end car. In that case you set the temperature to 72 and the car always tries to keep it at 72 and decides for itself if it needs to turn on the AC or the heater to keep it at 72
When you have the flu, your immune system diverts the white blood cells to fight off the flu virus, thus leaving your muscles and joints feeling sore and achy. ... This causes inflammation in muscles and joints, resulting in pain in a similar way to mild arthritis or rheumatism. Copied from Google. Either way I hope you get feeling better soon and this gives you a little insight into what is happening inside your body.
Because, interestingly enough, the legality of a product doesn't affect the amount of users much. Switzerland and the Netherlands ran trials for long periods of time, and the amount of users/addicts hardly changed. [This kurzgesagt video]( URL_0 ) explains it quite well. What we generally believe about addiction is kinda wrong. People get addicted to drugs because their personal lives are so bad that it is the only thing that makes them feel good. Because "most people" would have to come in contact with it. In Germany it was sold as a less addictive morphine replacement and as something against coughing. That means that you would have had the need for a pain or cough suppressor. If not then why use it? In addition not everybody has the need to try a drug just because it is legal.
Great question. I guess there are two prongs to this as I see it. Economically (and legally) slaves had no freedoms, they were property. Like others have said, they were treated poorly in the context of today's ethical codes. In the context of the time, they would've been cared for to the point at which it was necessary in order to maintain that resource. Psychologically, you'd be surprised how easily people can cherry pick what information they attend to (and therefore, their beliefs and emotional reactions to things around them). People tend to attend more to the information that supports their preexisting biases (this is called 'Confirmation Bias'). So if you were raised believing say, that slaves were subhuman or that indigenous people needed "salvation" through whatever means necessary, you'll sort the information in your world according to those biases. That natural part of ourselves (particularly in a community/time where critical thought might have not been encouraged) could go some way in explaining why people chose not to see the horrors of slavery. The same thing happens today with meat and dairy consumption and the impact of that industry on the environment but that's another topic for another time! Great question though! Nobody around you will think you any worse for taking your anger out on them. You will not be punished, some might even think better of you. Every other person you own will treat you with respect and terror. And it satisfies your primal urge to *power over the helpless.* The question is not why. The question is why not? I'd like to hear an informed answer. If I'm not mistaken, it was less likely for a slave to be treated like shit (as we have seen portrayed in popular media). I would assume that slaves developed more or less entire communities, generation after generation, and had a rather symbiotic relationship with the plantation owning family. Would love to hear some information on this. It's hard to understand now, but at the time there was a whole set of beliefs in place to justify enslaving black Africans, which set slavery in the Americas apart from other kinds of slavery. Essentially, people said that Africans were incapable of making civilization on their own, so keeping them as slaves was giving them a better life than they could ever otherwise hope to have. Being black and being a slave (or well suited to slave life) were synonymous. This idea was reinforced by the wealthy slave owners to prevent poorer white people from wanting to work together with slaves and overthrow them. At this level of dehumanization, it's easier to see why people would treat slaves cruelly. However, I do not know how common it was. /r/askhistorians has a lot of [great information]( URL_1 ) about this topic. According to [Wikipedia]( URL_0 ), the less slaves someone had, the kinder they tended to be. just keep in mind not ALL slaves were treated badly (yes being a slave is bad but im talking beyond that) this is a huge oversimplification and im not trying to make an accurate comparison but its sort of like pet owners. not everyone one is bad to their "pets" some treat them like family. in some cases i would imagine a wealthy owners slave got much better treatment than the common man depending on the era An argument I heard is they weren't always treated terribly because slaves were expensive. Treating slaves who were criminals could have a lot of cruelty because if you kill or maim a slave convict, it doesn't affect you. But a slave you bought, if you maim or kill them then you lose your investment. So people who owned slaves had an incentive to keep them alive and healthy. So punishments would probably be designed to cause pain and duress but not serious injuries or death. In the beginning, when slaves were plentiful, it was cheaper to buy a new slave than it was to take care of a current one. As the age progressed, it became cheaper to take care of the ones you had, and so life expectancy rose from a few weeks/months to a lifetime. They'd start them out on hard labor and eventually take them into the house for servant work. Many had children born in servitude, and many of those children had children. Yes, people still died, and there were some slave owners who were cruel or merciless in their punishments or indifferent to the plights of their slaves, but many owners were not. The kind of thing you see in movies is largely romanticized in order to vilify the trade. The slave trade is alive and well today, mostly in Africa. The idea behind slavery was black people and slavers were inferior creatures, a lesser animal and so couldn't and shouldn't be given anything other than a life of service. They were still tribal in Africa, because, being lesser animals, they were incapable of creating and being civilised. They were treated like animals (or worse) because for all intents and purposes they were considered animals. Nothing more than property to be bought and sold. To get into the mindset, think of them like a bike. If you bought a bike and decided to give it a good old kick, who am I to say how you ought to treat your bike. You bought it, it's your now. I don't have any right to critique your treatment of your own property. It's also worthing keeping in mind that we've become less violent in recent times. Life and people used to be a lot crueler in the olden days! It was only a few decades ago that schools all had corporal punishment with teachers whacking and smacking students with rulers and belts. The cultural norms of violence at the time were also an important factor in how poorly slaves were treated.
1 - It's pretty simple. You create something like a US Treasury and sell it on the open market. 2 - Same way you pay off your loan, they pay the money back. 3 - Yes, interest is part of it though typically Governments can get much better interest rates than an individual.
Plant ash is also an incredible, fast-acting fertilizer as it's been broken down and ready for reabsorption. Sugar cane is burned to remove the outer leaves around the stalks before harvesting. when i was a pre-teen my family took a trip to Mexico and we attended a festival of lanterns. the ultimate goal was to have your lantern land (while still burning) in cane field. you would not believe the ashes raining from the dark grey sky for days after that.
There is no formal procedure, nor an official record. It's essentially self-reporting. Most snipers operate with a spotter. The sniper says "I killed 'em." The spotter either confirms ("He killed 'em") or doesn't ("Couldn't see"). This goes into after-action reports, and that's about it. "Confirmed kills" is basically just PR. It's not an official number. [A good Quora answer on the subject.]( URL_0 )
Many things are difficult to portray on television - like smells as poly brought up. There is no real way to portray smell through pictures so old spice has terry crews screaming to create some sort of memory for their intended audience. Other times the product being sold isn't what the obvious. Nike isnt really selling shoes, a comparable shoe from another manufacturer can cost significantly less. Nike is selling an image and that is what they are portraying in their ads. Artificial demand inflation through memorable experience, mainly. Ads that matter-of-fact present a product 'the way it is,' don't really stick with you and make you remember that product the next time you're shopping. Imagine if Old Spice commercials were the Proctor & Gamble CEO sitting down with you and having a deadbeat chat about how Old Spice Odor Blocker Body Wash really does fight BO for 16 hours. It's not quite as memorable as Terry Crews screaming it at you, even if Terry Crews can't give you a reasonable representation of the product's quality. ads often dont advertise the product itself, but a feeling they want associated with the product. ever seen an apple ad? they never focus on the product itself, but on things you can do with it. or malboro ads - they dont say that their cigarettes are best. they say that by smoking malboro, you are a cowboy/man.
There is a tube that connects your throat to your middle ear called a eustachian tube. This tube is squeezed together the majority of the time but when you chew, yawn, swallow, etc. it opens in order to equalize the pressure in your ear with the surrounding air pressure. This is why chewing gum on an airplane helps to make your ears feel better and avoid the painful negative or positive pressure build up. You might have some excess mucus built up within the tube, some inflammation, or a normal anatomical variant that may be contributing to the sound you are hearing. Many people experience this popping or clicking sound around the time they are sick. Ok, stupid question, but is this normal? I was told most people don't have that - I can just flex my jaw muscles and pop them. Someone told me that was unusual. This happens every time I swallow. Not just if I'm sick. For as long as I can remember. Is this normal? People seem not to know this but *other* people can hear the clicking too if they put their ear to yours. Is this not a normal thing that happens to everyone? I'm not aware of a clicking sound when I swallow. Is OP experiencing something unusual, am I misunderstanding the question, or am I missing some click in my mouth? Follow up question, why can I voluntarily click/crackles the inside of my ears ? Always wondered if others could do that. I have had this all my life from having had frequent ENT infections when I was a child. I can get temporary relief by getting them to drain sometimes. I open my throat up as if to start a yawn deep down, and keep it open as I take multiple slow deep breaths. I open my jaw up and move it forward, and tilt my head back about 45 degrees and keep it tilted. After the first breath or two I keep my deeper throat as open as possible and close my mouth, breathing slowly in and out of my nose. It's okay to breathe through the mouth now and then too. I feel like I'm making progress when the vibrating of my breathing jumps into my ears as well. At some point at the end of an exhale I'll make a sharp inhaling breath through my nose which makes my ears feel really clogged up. (I don't recommend doing this if you have a head cold.) I leave my ears like that for a few seconds then make a full yawn with my throat as open as i can, and my head still tilted back, which makes my ears pop really good. As well flexing my jaw wide open and forward while deeply yawning can sometimes help with the drainage. Other things I've tried sometimes is the yawning technique, then closing the nose while (not forcefully) trying to breathe out, which forces air out through the ears (but this seems to keep the fluid in place I guess); and pulling on my ear away from my head to flex the ear canal while I work my jaw open and shut, keeping it jutting out. If your nose or throat feels like it's about to get runny or ticklish then you are definitely getting stuff moving around in there. Who else swallowed their saliva to hear this clicking sound? Reading the word yawn made me yawn, what's up with that? OMG?! OTHER PPL ACTUALLY EXPERIENCE THIS? I thought it was just me My 'popping' has been with me for years, is it normal? I have went to an ENT before but the specialist just briefly mentioned that there's something wrong with my eutaschian tube, possibly ETD, and there isn't anything much I can do besides living with it. It's an annoyance sometimes when it 'pops' while i talk/swallow/chill or yawn. Heh. I've always been able to "click" my ears whenever i want to. Dunno how i do it i just can. But now I know what it does lol. Have we come up with a solution? I went to a specialist before about this, had a CAT scan done and everything. In the finish he just asked me if I could live with it. Does anyone else here who can do this also get the dizzies from elevators? Follow up question: Why can I make the clicking sounds in my ears on command without moving any part of my jaw/swallowing. But by just doing it? My clicked only started happening after I went SCUBA diving 25ft down and was never able to fully equalize the pressure in my ears. Now when I swallow I hear two to three distinct pops in quick succession.
It is called [Helmholtz Resonance]( URL_1 ). This is basically where there is a low pressure area outside your car because the air is moving relative to the car which, according to [Bernoulli's Principle]( URL_0 ), lowers fluid pressure. The air in your car wants to equalize with the lower pressure outside your car, so it gets pushed out. By the time the pressures have equalized, the air is still moving out due to its inertia, so extra air gets out. This creates a low pressure zone in your car and the reverse happens. It flows into the car, but too much flows in, leaving another high pressure zone in the car, and the cycle repeats. This oscillating high and low pressure happens tens of times per second, which we perceive as sound. Side note: u/fyrillin could be on to something with the bluff body vortex shedding. However, the reason I think he could be wrong is that I get this effect when only my sun roof is open. How could there be a winning side and a losing side if there is only one hole? It is similar to blowing on a bottle and making a noise, which is confirmed to use Helmholtz Resonance. Edit: I mixed up where the high and low pressure zones start. Fixed. Just imagine what happens to a soda bottle when you pour the liquid out too quickly. It's starts splashing and pulsing as it comes out. The reason this happens is for the same reason your car "flutters" when you have only one window open. The air only has one hole to go in and out of. So as air leaves, it creates a slightly lower pressure in the car which wants to pull air back in now to equalize. But it has to go through the same hole, and it can't be doing both simultaneously. So this switching back and forth between exiting and entering air creates the flutter sound you hear. If you crack a second window, the air will have multiple entry and exit points and you will not hear the flutter :) Imagine the air entering your windows. It gets sucked in because you have compressed the air in front of you and it wants to expand. Nothing in nature is perfectly symmetrical so one side gets more pressure than the other for now. However, because of the shape of your car (it's not streamlined with your windows open), the air from the winning side ends up swirling inside your car. That creates a low pressure area toward the OTHER side. The winning side gets pushed out by the other side - which becomes the new winning side, does the same thing, and the cycle continues. You have just formed a "[bluff body vortex shedding]( URL_0 )" event. New cars are so aerodynamic that air slips past the windows over a very thin boundary layer. When you roll them down, air still slips past them, but the air moving past the open window creates a Venturi effect. This drops the pressure in the cabin very quickly. As soon as the pressure drops below a certain point, the Venturi effect breaks for a second and a slug of air gets drawn into the cabin. The sudden increase in pressure reestablishes the Venturi effect, drawing air BACK out of the car. This is cyclical and happens very rapidly. Old cars rarely did this because they were much less aerodynamic and had huge boundary layers. Have you ever blown across the top of a glass bottle to make it whistle? This is the same thing, only the person blowing is mother nature, the car is the bottle, and the whistling comes from your screams of agony. Short story on the helicopter effect, and what kind of scumbags car dealers are. Got my first car a few years ago, excited as hell. Few days later I drive with the back window open and hear this awful whirring sound. What the fuck is wrong with my car?i thought it was something wrong with the back wheels or axles, because I only heard this when I rolled down the rear window. Finally, I take it to the local Didge dealer. They make me sign a thing saying I have to pay 200 bucks for the mechanic to look at it, whether they find anything or not. Like an idiot, I agree. Dude comes back and says the rest right axel is all rusted out, will cost 1000 to fix, and I'm like fuck that. Drive it all the way to the original dealer. Lady that heads the service department asks if I want to take a ride I her truck. She opens the back window and there's that same fucking sound! What? She explained the whole thing to me and I felt like a moron. I have no idea what OP is talking about. What's the "helicopter effect"? Edit: thanks for all the answers! I kinda know what y'all're talking about, I've only experienced it a couple times and only gently. Have you ever blown across the top of a bottle to produce a sound? It's that, just on the scale of a car. What I don't understand is that engineers can create an electric car that can operate almost autonomously with no sound, can drive 250 miles on a charge, and can outrace a Ferrari... But modern automotive science can't stop the windows from wub-wubbing like an Apache attack helicopter? Why not? It was explained to me like pouring something out of a bottle too quickly. If there is only one entry/exit, then it "blubs". If you have another vent(second window open) it allows the air to escape through a different opening that it is being pushed into. Another Aerospace engineer here, gonna put this in the simplest terms I can, probably gonna get too technical (or not technical enough) anyway. It happens. When you have a flow going along an aerodynamic surface, the fluid "sticks" to the surface. Basically, drag (the easy kind to understand at least) happens when the flow stops sticking to the surface. Opening a window kinda ruins the aerodynamics, so you get fluid separation across the surface where the window was. Here's a quick gif of simple flow streamlines and some fluid separation that I did for a class. (Simple 2Dchannel Pouiselle flow over a hump) Right past the hump, you're getting that "turbulence" from the fluid separating, and it kinda pulses. URL_0 it's not exactly what's happening here, but it's a similar basic idea. When the fluid separates, you get a low-pressure zone, so the air inside the car rushes out. But if you've ever poured out a bottle of coke/beer/water, you'll notice that it has to "glug" to let the air in to replace the fluid that went out. The air in the car basically works the same way, and "glugging" air makes that sound (and it glugs a lot faster too). That's why opening a second window fixes this problem--air can go out and in more freely without occupying the same space. This changes the resonant frequency of the car (usually shifts it up higher with more windows open), so you'd have to change your speed (usually go a lot faster) to get the same effect again. Super simplified, doesn't really cover the nuances, but it should get the basic idea across. I'm having trouble picturing this. Anyone got a video? You're sitting inside a giant whistle. As you know larger whistles produce lower notes. This whistle is so large the note is below the normal hearing frequency, so we feel it as the helicopter effect. Hey I have a follow up question to this, is it the same reason the helicopter effect occurs when I get out of the shower?
I am no expert but, people tend to want to satisfy their curiosity and that includes delving into the taboo. Porn companies are like any other form of media, they copy what seems to be doing well. A few years ago it was all about parodies along the lines of "Not Star Wars XXX". Add in the naughty/taboo aspects of human nature, and things like this take off pretty quick. It'll eventually move on to something else.
Great question! Two important mechanisms: innervation and gate control theory. First, innervation. What's very different from the inside of the mouth and the tongue compared to skin elsewhere in the body (except the fingertips), is that its greatly sensorily innervated! This means it is much more sensitive to physical stimuli. So abnormal sensations, like aphthae, that occur in the buccal mucosa or on the tongue, are brought to awareness much more than stimuli elsewhere. When something is continuously within awareness, it stimulates a response. Which will be you to touch/press on the painful/uncomfortable area. Have you heard of the *sensory cortical homunculus*? It's a cartoon that depicts the size of the brain areas involved in the sensory innervation of different body parts. You should see how big the lips and tongue are on the sensory homunculus, compared to the rest of the body. Google it (not the motor homunculus!). Secondly, the gate control theory of pain. There are different sensory inputs that are each processed slightly differently on neurological level: pain, soft touch, rough touch, temperature and proprioception. What this theory basically asserts is that when there is pain in a specific area of the body, applying non-painful stimuli (e.g. soft or rough touch) to the same body part closes the "gates" to painful inputs. Thus, non-painful stimuli can alleviate pain slightly by suppressing its neural conduction! This is also the reason why people are quick to put there hands on painful areas (e.g. hand on forehead when having a headache). It's just the novelty of it. It's something odd and out of place on your mouth and I'm sure it may also be similar to why animals lick their wounds. The mouth *is* the fastest healing part of the body and maybe the constant exposing of damaged tissue to saliva may have a healing/anti-infection aspect?
Throwing up is fairly energy intensive and not something the body is terribly practiced at. Right before you throw up, your stomach and esophageal muscles start stealing circulation from other parts of the body like the legs and arms so they have enough energy to force everything out of your stomach, and this sudden drop in circulation makes you feel extremely weak. The recovery afterward is your body releasing endorphins designed to make you feel better, the idea being that 'expelling the threat' should mean the danger has passed and you can go about your day now.
Some of it is because your purchasing power is relative to the cost of living where you are.
Tears come out of your eyes because when you yawn you're flexing the muscles near your tear ducts. You're essentially squeezing the tears out. Nobody's sure why exactly that happens, but some have suggested it's because your eyes tend to get dry when you're tired. Yawning relubricates them for you. Interesting fact: the composition of yawn tears is different than that of sad tears, and happy tears are different than those!
Julian Assange, and a collective of anonymous others. No one stops them because they do not "exist" in any real location, aside from Assange, who is taking refuge in an embassy in Europe. He recently did an IAMA on reddit, and gets talked about a lot.
The way muscles are developed in mammals isn't the only way to produce movement in an organism. Often evolution will find more than one way to do something. There are many different kinds of locomotion like flagellum, or even pumping water around to stiffen or relax. So while they have muscles, they aren't necessarily going to look the same as ours. The nitty gritty is our muscles are built up of sarcomeres which are like little chemical machines that can curl in on themselves, lengthening or shortening. For the large muscles in our bodies there are many sarcomeres chained together working in tandem to create our muscle fibers. The sacromeres are triggered with the help of a chemical called troponin. There are different varieties of troponin which are used in different types of muscle cells. I don't know much about transparent fish or frogs but some species of fish have transparent embryos and there have been experiments done with them that make mention of the same sarcomere structures and troponin so they appear to function the same, even if their physical structure and features are different. Fish have very strong structures that are transparent membranes called sarcolemma which bind the sarcomeres together so there isn't really anything to prevent transparency. Ours are just arranged differently. you can read a great book on the subject [here. An introduction to the study of the comparative anatomies of animals.]( URL_0 ) Pages 95-96 have information on frogs and the transparent muscle structures. One of the reasons that transparency isn't seen more often is because of damage from ultraviolet light. For an animal on the surface it would lead to genetic damage and the death of the species. Water provides a better barrier to block UV light, and of course cave organisms in light-less environments have no genetic advantage to have protection from UV so they are often albino or semi transparent. Other creatures may live in lakes, rivers, or oceans and stay in the murky depths during the day, and forage out at night when there is less risk of UV damage. [This video]( URL_0 ) explains this really well even though it doesn't eat deep down into the specifics. The basic gist is that they have no pigments, like albino animals, so they don't reflect any light. However, unlike albino bunnies and and alligators, their skin, muscles and organs don't scatter light either, which is what makes you able to see albino bunnies and alligators. This is possible because if microscopic structures within the body are organized and tightly packed together, individual photons of light can just travel right through them in a straight line, going in on one side and out the other. When structures are not highly organized, light bounces off of them and scatters around in many directions making them visible. Your eyes detect the light acting all wonkydoo (technical term) and your brain turns it into a picture. There are much more complex answers to this that deal with particle and quantum physics that are beyond me. I'm just a humble biologist.
I could not find that idiom anywhere so I gotta ask: what do you mean with run hot or cold? Something biological? Hormones! Higher levels of T4 from your thyroid and cortisol from your adrenals help to regulate body temperature and cold tolerance. Everyone's pituitary regulated these slightly differently resulting in varying tolerances to cold. There are a couple of proposed reasons for this, however it's not an area that has been researched extensively. [Burse]( URL_1 ) suggests that as women (on average) have lower body mass and less surface area than men, they are also less capable of maximising heat production when it is required. This may be one contributing reason for the slight gender and heat differences in your household. [Venable]( URL_2 ) also researched this, but more in relation to physical exercise. The findings in that study showed that men retain more heat in their body after exercise than women. These findings aren't shared with the intention of saying that men are always at a higher temperature, as a [woman's base body temperature]( URL_0 ) may rise during ovulation, or as a result of [declining estrogen levels]( URL_3 ). In terms of heredity, that's an even narrower field and not one that I can scientifically answer to. Edit: slight sentence error
Different people have different cardio vascular systems. He may also be more fit than you, yes you read that right, sweating a lot and quickly is a sign you are in good shape. Sweating is a means to cool the body temperature. Your skin has a lot of surface area, and sweat acts as a medium that cools when in contact with (usually cooler) air. Producing more sweat covers more surface area of the body, and therefore becomes more efficient at cooling. Individuals who are physically fit typically produce sweat because their bodies need to cool more efficiently. This doesn't exclude individuals who are overweight, however, because moving a lot of mass - whether it be muscle or fat - requires a lot of energy expenditure, produces heat, and requires more efficient cooling. Really surprised no one has said this yet: genetics I'm half Philipino and in good shape, similar to my teammates on my soccer and tennis teams, but I always sweat WAY more than them. It's just because I'm Philipino, and all of my Philipino relatives sweat a TON as well. My brother and sister sweat when meeting new people and I sweat in interviews. When I was a 4th grader, after basketball games my head would be drenched and my teammates' heads would by dry. We just sweat really easily, and it's not related to our fitness. Also, all of my white relatives don't sweat this easily.
Burgot gave you 3000+ karma on /r/leagueoflegends, so you are satisfied. Why? Burgot is very odd, yet satisfying. Therefore, he is odd and satisfying.
Your body generates a fever in order to fight an infection. Molecules in your body (generated by the immune system or pieces of the bacteria/virus) signal the hypothalamus to raise the temperature of the body. Think of the hypothalamus as the thermostat of the body. Normally it holds your body around 98.6 degrees F. Now it is telling the body it should be sitting at 101 degrees F. So the body "believes" that it is cold because it is currently multiple degrees below what the thermostat is set at. Your body responds by shivering and uses other techniques to increase your core body temperature to what the hypothalamus has it set at.
Some goods and services are easily tradeable between countries, like buying fuel, electronics or insurance. So you will find that they cost about the same wherever you go. Some are harder to trade, and this usually includes labour and land. So this means that prices can vary quite a bit in different countries and regions. In Thailand labour is pretty cheap, and land is fairly cheap. With restaurants, and to some extent hotels, a lot of the cost comes from the land and labour. It also helps that local Thai restaurants are set up in other ways to make them cheap. They churn out food fast as hell, people come, the order arrives in minutes they eat in ten, they are gone. So they serve tonnes of people in a sitting. They tend to have few options and they buy just the ingredients they need for a day. They don't waste much. Portions are small and the amount of the more expensive ingredients is particularly small. It's notable that if you go to one of the better steak restaurants in Bangkok you can pay $75, $100 or more for a single imported steak. Because you are eating imported food, with very skilled staff in a place with very high rent and none of the cost advantages that local restaurants have. Your also talking about a different currency. For example you can go to the Cayman Islands and get a drink for the equivalent of maybe ¢20. However compared to wages, that would be around $4 in their currency. Basically your USD or Euros are worth more in some other countries relative to wages. Simple. Every element which dictates the price of everything is less in Thailand; i.e. shelter, transportation, energy, services. Why is it less? The root cause is that labour is cheap, and workers are willing to accept lower wages for a job, whether the job is in the transportation, energy, services, or agriculture sector. The majority of these workers accept these wages because they need to in order to survive. This condition creates a cascading effect throughout the economy, causing everything to cost less. If it didn't cost less, then these workers would not be able to afford necessities in their own country. NYC is the opposite of what I noted above. Workers are, overall, not willing to accept $1 an hour to work in transport (i.e. drive a bus), monitor and electric grid (i.e. energy), work as a waiter at a restaurant. I can go on but this is ELI5 and I don't want to over complicate things.
Generally for when you're showing off your custom sound (doors and trunk open) you can control everything without actually having to be in the car. This can be great for subwoofer competitions, where the noise level in and around the car can be harmful to your hearing. It also can add a level of "cool" or enchance the flow of the showing of your car, as you could have various underglow systems hooked into the remote depending on just how tech savvy you are.. Or how much you paid someone to do it for you.
Its possible, but extremely rare, for a person to have different blood type sperm/egg than their actual blood type (a chimera). The odds of both parents being chimeras would be astronomical. Either someone's typed wrong, or you're adopted. There is a rare blood type called hh or Bombay phenotype. It will appear as type O because it does not have the A or B antigens on it. However, children of a parent with this type may still have type AB blood, because the genes for the antigens are there, but the hh is a mutation that keeps these antigens from being expressed when the blood cells actually develop. I am rather amazed that no one has brought this up yet. I learned this in Molecular Genetics class. > Both of my Parents are type O blood type. I am AB+ how is that possible? It's not. Either you are mistaken about your or your parents' blood types, or you are adopted. Two O parents cannot produce an AB child. One parent with O blood makes AB impossible, much less two. You have to get A from one parent and B from the other. While it is not unheard of for one mutation to occur, it is very rare. For two freak mutations to happen at the same time would probably be never before in history improbable. So, here are the other possibilities: * both parents are wrong about their blood types * mom is wrong about her blood type, a mutation occured, and the man you call dad is irrelevant to the genetic equation * neither mom nor dad are your genetic parents I'm betting on the first one. Are your parents O + or O- ? Having an AB from an O is still impossible ... I'm just curious. The chimerism thing doesn't work because it means you have cells from one or more zygotes. But any of the DNA you have has to come from the sperm or the egg. Neither of your parents have any copies of A or B unless they are both chimeras as well, but this would have been detected when your parents were blood typed. URL_0 Article is from the American journal of medical genetics 1996 > Edit: can O be mistaken for AB on a blood type test? Not usually. Blood typing tests for proteins on the surface of RBC's that react to certain antibodies. * Having type A blood means that your RBC's have type A surface antigens and your body produces antibodies that attack cells with type B surface antigens. * Having type B blodo means that your RBC's have type B surface antigens and your body produces antibodies that attack cells with type A surface antigens. * Having type AB blood means that your RBC's have both A and B surface antigens and your body does not produce antibodies that attack cells with either surface antigen. * Having type O blood means that your RBC's do not have either A or B antigens and your body produces antibodies that attack cells with either A or B antigens. So when they test your blood type, they see how antibodies react to your blood. If a blood sample reacts to type A antibodies and the cells start to stick together, then that blood is not type A. The same goes for type B. If blood reacts to both A and B antibodies, then that is type O blood. If the blood doesn't react to either A or B antibodies, then that is type AB blood. So it's not likely type O could be mistaken for type AB, as their reaction to antibodies in the test are the exact opposite. Type O will react to A & B antibodies while type AB won't react to either. OP, be aware that most posters in this thread are **grossly overestimating** the certainty with which AB0 blood typing proves parenthood on its own, because they're relying on high school genetics knowledge. Much like fingerprinting and DNA testing, while the average person thinks it's foolproof, there are all sorts of details involved (bombay blood as mentioned by a poster, incorrect test results, other genetic disorders, etc.) which makes matters far more muddled. Avoid making early conclusions. Genetics testing for other reasons shows that about 3% of the time the putative father is not as thought. This is in a group where the testing is announced ahead of time to both parents, especially to the mother, for a full diagnosis of the child. In other words, the mother knows ahead of time that the truth will out, and she can avoid it with any excuse she can think of. So this number is probably lower than the actual incidence. Be sure to think through the consequences of any possible discovery. You do not want your supposed father shooting your supposed mother.
Might be a number of things. 1) You aren't used to waking up early, so your body isn't ready for it. If you don't usually wake up at 7am and then suddenly do, it'll be hard. 2) It's often colder in the morning, especially in the winter. Getting out of bed in the cold is hard. 3) It's much brighter at 11am than 7am and our body responds to sunlight. This is why we get tired at night, because your body release melatonin to help get ready for sleep.
It depends on the specific of the deal as announced and approved by the shareholders, but most commonly the shared will be converted to shares in the acquiring company. Sometimes they'll issue only in full shares and pay cash for fractional shares and sometimes they'll issue fractional shares. As an example, I owned 15 shares in SolarCity, a solar panel recently bought by Tesla. Based on the transaction prices, that was equivalent to 1.65 shares of Tesla, which was issued to me as 1 share of TSLA and $127 (for the value of the .65 share) Generally stock in Company A is converted to Company B stock at an agreed upon rate. If Company B is privately held then payouts for Company A stock will be part of the purchase negotiations.
Much like a small sect of coffee drinkers, there are tea ~~connoisseurs~~ snobs that will turn their nose at you if you don't brew your tea at the *proper* temperature. Tea pots are designed to heat water to a specific temperature, where the microwave can produce irregular and inconsistent results. In reality, most people will never know a difference and most tea consumers can't taste the difference. If you are among the few that can taste the difference or can't take the mockery, a teapot may be good for you. Otherwise, enjoy that quick heat from the microwave-induced vibrating water molecules. Oh good lord. Disclaimer: I am a tea snob. I'll start by saying there's nothing *inherently* wrong with using a microwave, *so long as you're only using it to get the water to the correct temperature*. Tea is a lot more delicate than most people think. You do not -- I repeat, **not** use boiling water for tea, and you never, *ever* boil the tea in the water! You need very specific temperatures, and very specific steeping times for different kinds of tea. For example, green tea needs to be steeped for 1-2 minutes in water that is 80 degrees C (175F). That too is generalised - some green teas must only be steeped for 30 seconds! Steeping the tea for too long will make it bitter. Same with the temperature being too high or too low! That's why people keep dumping sugar and milk in tea. If you make tea correctly, *you don't need to add anything to it* to make it delicious. Now if you're using some, shall we say, non-delicate tea, like the kind that comes in tea bags, then it's not a big deal since that's not going to be delicious anyway. And there are more resilient teas that can handle a wider range (in fact, there are some Display Teas that are designed to have hot water added to them for an entire night). As a sidenote: the people across the pond are in a glass house about tea. They know *nothing* about brewing. Unless "the pond" is the pacific ocean and you're going to China, and also 200+ years back in time. > My question is: why does it matter? It doesn't. > ...you're just going to pour the heated water in a cup and add the tea bag so it's not like the actual tea is going in the microwave. I always microwave the teabag in a cup of water; do it most every day, works just fine. Different teas need to be brewed at different temperatures and for different lengths of time to get their proper flavor. Black teas for example are usually steeped at higher temperatures (200-212F) for longer periods of time, whereas a white/green tea that is more delicate is generally steeped at 150-180F. Different teas have different chemical makeups which greatly affect the flavor of the tea, and how long and hot it can be brewed at before it gets bitter and ruins the taste. Brew your jasmine needle at 212F and you're gonna burn the hell out of it, making it bitter and disgusting. Many pre-packages teas that you would buy from the store (Lipton, store brands etc.) are very fine, sometimes powdery, and generally just low quality tea. The finer the particles are, the more surface area the water hits, and hence the faster the tannins and other flavors infuse into the water. The proper way to get the best quality tea in terms of flavor would be to: * use loose leaf teas (the higher the quality, the better the taste) * brew the tea at the proper temperature and length * use freshly brewed water, do not re-heat previously brewed water * use the highest quality water available to you (contaminants in the water can affect the taste) * store your tea in an air-tight storage container, away from other materials that may have a strong aroma (spices for example) * store your tea in a dark area (generally keeping it in a metal tin would do) Like /u/sterlingphoenix said, you want to avoid using boiling water, generally 205-210F at the hottest. If you are using a high quality loose leaf tea, and using water that isn't riddled with hard minerals, you should have a great tasting tea without any sweeteners. You can of course add sugar, honey, etc. but depending on what kind of sweetener you use, this will greatly affect the flavor of the tea, and in most cases, will hide the true taste of the tea. Good tea does not need to be sweetened, and it's healthier to avoid sweeteners anyhow. I HIGHLY suggest checking out Adagio Tea ( URL_0 ). They have a large variety of high quality tea available at an affordable price, plus they don't charge shipping over certain amounts. They also have a rewards programs, clubs (subscriptions) and more. They do a lot of free samples, and limited time tea variants etc. Been buying from them for years now and I am very happy with their prices and quality. The shipping is quick too. The reality is that there IS a proper way to get the BEST flavor out of the tea. If you are drinking tea to just have something hot to drink, that's fine, but you're really not getting the proper tea. It's kind of like playing your Skyrim on an Xbox instead of a PC :^) Because it flies in the face of tea tradition. Microwave ovens are associated with quick but poor-quality cooking. They're the things you use to heat up a frozen pizza pocket at 2:00 in the morning. Tea, on the other hand, is supposed to be a class apart -- you're supposed to put your regular life on hold, brew up a pot, and let your troubles slip away for the next little while. So you don't want to mix up your sublime tea experience with such mundane things as microwaves. Microwaves don't heat evenly, and hence there are several possible results, none perfect: cold spots in the water, superheated water that boils vigorously on contact with the tea, or water that's been heated long enough in the microwave to come to a rolling boil, at which point there's a good chance that the oxygen has been boiled out. All of these can affect the flavor of the tea. Most people who are into tea agree that most black teas should be seeped with water at 212°F(100°C). A tea kettle or hot pot, whether electric or stovetop, heats from the bottom, creating convection currents that stir the water, allowing the temperature to be uniform. Plus it's easier to know exactly when the water reaches the desired temperature. [Partial source]( URL_0 ) At the risk of being a tea snob, if you're adding a tea bag to a cup into which you've poured hot water, you're already compounding the problem. The water will cool off from the cup, so when you add the bag, you're dealing with water that's already colder than it should be. Whenever I use bagged tea (mostly just herbals), I always put the bag in first and then pour the water onto it. May also have something to do with the US using 120V mains power rather than 230/240V, I am told that electric kettles in the US take forever to boil whereas a kettle in the UK will take around a minute to make a couple of cups worth of boiling water. It is therefore a lot quicker for you to heat water in the microwave. Its to avoid the harrumphing of the Greater Spotted Tea Drinker. I myself am a Lesser Spotted Tea Drinker so while I use a kettle, microwaving the WATER is...ok but strange. However, sugar and teabag, then hot water, then teabag out and then milk. Adding milk with the teabag in is blasphemy and all who do so shall be first against the wall when the revolution comes.
I make no claims to be an expert on this but I have seen articles where they tested the theory about "time flies when you're having fun"... Basically they say that the concept of time, especially inside our squishy brains is fluid and ever changing based on activity level, dopamine, etc. So I would go out on a limb and say when you are working out, you're entire body is basically in overdrive. Muscles are firing faster, internal processes are accelerated and music is just another stimulus that your brain is trying to process. Someone riding past you on a bike looks very different when you are standing still vs. passing them in a car at highway speeds. I think Einstein said it best. “Put your hand on a hot stove for a minute, and it seems like an hour. Sit with a pretty girl for an hour, and it seems like a minute. That's relativity.” While that isn't actually relativity it's a good anecdote. Your perception of time will vary based on your over all perception at that moment. Get distracted and time can appear to fly by, but focus on something and time can seem to stand still. We aren't very good judges of time which is why hourglasses, sun dials, and clocks are so useful.
All of the processes that a cell does require energy and that energy comes from oxygen. After you've had a cardiac arrest blood is no longer flowing around your body. And blood is what carries oxygen. So no oxygen means no energy. Cells at lower temperatures use energy more slowly. So by cooling down the body, you increase the amount of time cells can survive before they need more oxygen delivered to them. I don't think putting ice on someone would necessarily be harmful, but in general the initial cooling is done by injecting somebody with cool saline. After the body temperature has been brought down by cooling the blood directly, then other methods like ice packs or cooling blankets can be used to keep the temperature low. I'm not aware of any studies that have been done regarding immediate application of ice post-stroke, so I can't be sure if it would have any effect, but if I had to guess I'd say it wouldn't help.
Thorium isn't the selling point for a reactor that can't melt down; thorium is extremely difficult to turn into elements that can create a nuclear bomb (heavy uranium and plutonium). The liquid salt aspect is the neat part. The reactors have been tested, and despite public hatred, are extremely safe. Our current reactors run on extremely highly pressurized water that, if a leak occurs, sends out radioactive steam. The salt reactors, when designed properly, literally can self shut down if it gets too hot, and if needed can be dumped into a big holding tank where it gets too spread out to generate heat. A little more sciency: a well designed power reactor can utilize nearly 100% of its heavy fuels, but the current light water reactors use somewhere around 2%. They do this by modulating the neutron economy. If more heavy elements are generated than are destroyed you get a breeder reactor. These are what nuclear bomb plutonium was generated from. If you take that dangerous bred fuel, clean out some elements that steal neutrons without helping, and put it back while forcing more elements to be broken down you get a burner reactor. The breeder/burner cycle can be done within a single reactor with fuel reprocessing, and can utilize current nuclear waste. The elements that can't be broken down have half lives in the range of 100 years (instead of 100000 years of uranium and plutonium isotopes that LWRs generate). And as to your question of why isn't it used: public perception of nuclear power is tainted by things like Chernobyl, 3 mile island, and Fukushima (all light water reactors). But for the number of big failures at nuclear plants there's lots more at other forms of power generation, but they aren't as easy to demonize.
I am going to take a dig at this. I think the exact word you are looking for is "Rocking to sleep". As to why Rocking helps us sleep, it is a matter of brain waves. Firstly, we have been put to sleep a hundred times since our birth by gentle swinging motions of our parents. Hence our **brain associates these gentle movements to a relaxing environment**. As a result, we feel a little less stressed and calm, the perfect conditions for inducing sleep. Now comes the question: Why do babies rock to sleep in the first place? I read about it a while back, so I might not be accurate here. It is still poorly understood, but the bottom line is, **any sort of slow rhythmic movement is sleep inducing**. The reason is that our brain is made to respond to any stimuli. This is an evolutionary trait, and is one of the most important traits in our survival as a species. While observing a slow rhythmic movement, our brain functions at a much slower rate than if it was observing a random fast paced movement. Since there is nothing much new to intake, that means nothing much new to process. *Same input, same output, less processing*. This applies to all the senses: sight, hearing and so on. Hence our brain functions at a slower rate, which is the ideal condition for sleeping. Another reason is that, rhythmic movement **calms down our Amygdala - the part of the brain which responds to fear**. Since Amygdala is a key element in the sleep-wake cycle, calming it down is one of the foremost tasks before sleep. So there it is. Hope I have remembered it well. Note: Rocking does not only put us to sleep, it also helps us to sleep deeply. P.S. This is my first comment on Reddit, please be gentle. Edit: The article I read was probably about this study: URL_0 . You can check this out. It more or less states the above.
It's probably not the capacitor, it's the transformer. Older cameras generate a high voltage to get a bright flash, and that voltage is generated through a transformer/capacitor circuit. The whining is caused by [magnetostriction]( URL_0 ). As the magnetic field rapidly changes in the transformer, the materials expand and contract a bit. This sets up a high frequency vibration that you hear as a whine.
This is a huge generalisation and will work differently based on the game but generally a quick save on console will delete when you pick it back up whereas a normal save can be accessed at any time. On a pc a quick save would just mean you don't pick which save slot to use. Again, huge generalisation, that's just how I understand it in very broad terms. What game are you talking about? In most games, a quick-save is a single save slot that can hold one save file at a time. Quick-saving will overwrite whatever the last save state was, and quick-loading a save will only ever load the most recent quick-save. A normal save lets you create your own separate save file that can be recovered regardless of future saves or loads. Think of quick-saving as a bookmark you keep moving as you progress, and normal saving as leaving post it notes at various points throughout the book
Vox and Kurzgesagt made pretty good videos 'bout it. Check 'em out [here]( URL_0 ) and [here]( URL_1 ). You're welcome!
Not particularily alarming yet. > How is it possible to ever pay that off? Remember, this is soveriegn debt. It's not like a loan you'd take from a bank. In fact, the idea of a national bank and sovereign debt was partly created to alleviate the catastrophic borrowing some monarchs did. So for one, while you'd go to a bank and ask for a loan, the United States *sells* Treasury Bonds. Treasury Bonds mature at a set rate; this means that the owner of the bond cannot demand payment earlier, nor can the government pay it earlier. US Treasury Bonds are the most trusted in the world, so the interest rates are incredibly low. During times of crisis, demand skyrockets. During the 2008 crisis, at one point the interest rate for the debt was lower than the inflation rate, which meant the government *made* money from it. The idea is to take the cheap funds you can get from the debt and use that expand the economy. Borrow money for cheap, increase the economy, get more tax money, borrow more money, ad finem.
First off, Putin has acted in ways more akin to the Soviets during the Cold war than any leader since the fall of the USSR, such as invading Ukraine, having opposition politicians and journalists killed. Secondly, the evidence suggest it's not about being best friends or equal super powers with them, but Russia gaining benefits through control of Trump at the expense of the U.S. or the rest of the world. There are fundamental disagreements to big to paper over. Russia has shown, through its annexation of Crimea (and its operations in South Ossetia), that it is willing to violate international law for purely territorial gain. This threatens, both directly and indirectly, our major trading partners and long time allies in Europe.
The external covering of your lips is essentially a thin layer of skin. Like all skin, it can get dry. Poor hydration, sun exposure, and cold weather can all dry out and irritate your skin, lips included. When you lick your lips, you're rubbing your tongue over that skin and wearing it down through contact and saliva. Do that repeatedly, and your lips will dry out even more since saliva is not moisturizing, but rather is full of enzymes meant to break down food. Stay hydrated and keep chapstick on hand to prevent chapped lips and stay comfortable! :) EDIT: I realize I made it sound as if saliva can break down skin. It can't. My point was more to note that saliva's purpose is not skin moisturization, but something else entirely. When you lick your lips, you make them wet, but it evaporates quickly. Through evaporation, even more moisture is pulled out of your lips. Don't lick your lips! The skin on your lips lacks sebaceous glands, which means unlike most of your skin it can't keep itself lubricated with natural oils. **Edit** Sebaceous glands are the little oil producing 'pouches' that are at the base of each individual hair inside the hair follicle. The oil comes out of your pores and is there to keep your hair and skin lubricated, conditioned, pliable, and healthy. **Edit 2** Several folks have brought up fordyce spots. These *are* a sort of sebaceous gland associated with the lips, but they're only along the edge of the lips, or what is known as the "vermilion border" (these harmless spots are also found on the penis, scrotum, and labia). I am not a doctor but it doesn't seem like they're *as* well equipped to keep lips from chapping in many conditions, and the enzymes from our own saliva can override any benefit they may try to contribute if you lick your lips too much. The rest of the lips are high and dry, so to speak. **Edit 3** Some fellas with beards have mentioned not having as much trouble with chapped lips since growing said beard. I'd never even considered this until now (girl here, can't beard) but I would believe that the oils from your beard would make it to your lips and keep them moisturized and happy. Good discussion, everyone! And thanks for keeping me fact-checking. :) Follow up question: why do (most) chapstick brands create a dependency that results in my lips becoming even more disgustingly chapped than they were before? I have not tried all brands, but I haven't ever had a brand that didn't cause this problem. Currently I use Aquaphor with varying results. The skin on your lips is thin and sensitive. It prone to drying out when you're dehydrated or when it's licked. The reason licking your lips causes chapping is because your saliva contains digestive enzymes that are designed to break down food and the acidity of saliva can really dry out your lips over time (I chronically lip my lips and I always have dry lips!). The best way to make sure your lips aren't dry is by drinking plenty of water, moisturizing them, either with a lip balm or something like coconut oil, and stop licking them! --- **EDIT:** You well-researched bitches making me look dumb, STOP IT! I now understand that saliva isn't acidic! I just assumed it was because of the digestive enzymes, I made the assumption it was acidic. The more ya know, I guess! Thanks for commenting. :* Lips get chapped when they become dehydrated, or sun burnt, or go through too many hot/cold cycles (anecdotal). As has been noted, licking your lips exacerbates the problem, while a good lip balm helps a great deal. What has not been noted yet, that I have seen, is that a diet high in omega-3 containing fish, or omega 3/fish oil supplements seem to help a noticeably when taken in sufficient quantity - at least 1200mg per day. I have always had a problem with chapped lips during the winter, but over the past year, I've been very regular in using omega 3 supplements, and my lips have, thus far, done wonderfully during this winter season. Gone from using lip balm 2-3x a day in past winters to less than once a week this winter. Worth a try and tons of other health benefits too! Source: I work for a fish oil producing company.* URL_0 *That is a lie. How do you keep chapstick for more than 24 hours with out losing it? Follow up question, why does the skin of the lips sometimes seem to basically detach itself with water, say, after a shower? If you remove it, it doesn't hurt and there's perfectly normal skin underneath, so it makes it seem like it isn't replaced naturally like most of our skin. My understanding is that mouth breathing is a huge part of this. When your lips are slightly parted all the time, saliva is constantly dribbling out of your mouth, causing your tongue to swing into action subconsciously and lick. As many people have already stated, licking makes the chapping worse. I've always thought it was because licking removes the few oils that are actually on the lips, making them dry out more. Just like excessive hand washing leads to chapped hands, because oils are being removed. Also, mouth breathing pulls dry air over your lips repeatedly, which can't help. In the winter, your nose is more likely to be stuffed, so you're more likely to mouth breath. Next time you see someone addicted to lip balm or with chapped lips, watch their mouth for a while. They're probably a mouth breather. Anyway, I haven't used lip balm in 20 years, and here's my recommendation: 1. Nose breathe exclusively. Keep that mouth closed, keep your tongue suctioned against the top of your mouth (google tongue posture for more info). 2. NEVER lick your lips. 3. (Maybe?) Eat a diet higher in saturated animal fat. Vaseline (petroleum jelly) works amazingly well. Slather it on before bed and in the morning lips are soft and moisturised Edit: corrected "lather" to "slather". Follow up question: If I lick my lips then rub my finger on them to get the rough skin off to now have the underskin as the top layer, why is it that they don't get chapped anymore? Is it because that layer isn't as damaged? Follow up question, why does it seem as if some people don't ever get chapped lips or never use chapstick at all when my lips will look awful and bleed if I stop using chapstick? Pro Tip: When its really cold out don't breathe through your mouth if you are not wearing chapstick or other protection. Breathe through your nose. Its cool to see your breath but your lips will chap up in no time. Late but if anyone knows: Every time I get a mouth wound that lasts a week or two, my lips goes flaked like that. Why? In addition, I have a nasty tendency to pull that off, which makes the kids worse, as well as contribute to even more flaking. So, sometimes a quarter square centimeter of lip is ripped off... Follow up question. If someone had a bad habit of picking at the skin of ones lips and ....peeling them and it sometimes bleeds.....Does that do anything bad? Will it give the person cancer? You're dehydrated, that's it. Also if your dog has a dry nose or licking it you need to give it water. Dogs don't have lips so there is no indicator other than the nose. Why is it whenever I use a chapstick (brand new one not already used) most times it will make my cold sores come out shortly after? Read this before bed last night. Thought last night that I hadn't gotten chapped lips in a while and woke up this morning with it. Few hours later and now it's bleeding too.
Imma answer your question, but first let me tell you about this time I watered the lawn on a warm july afternoon, there were clouds in the sky and childrens laughter.... ok seriously, who knows, maybe they just like to hear themselves type, or create an emotional connection to the recipe, perhaps they are just killing white space so the ad banner on the side fits the page. could be worse, you could be asking about youtube videos. *11minutes to review a potato peeler? how???* If the author is a decent writer, it can help set the mood for the food but even the best authors can sometime seem like they're waving their wonderfulness about like a 3 year old boy enjoys waving around his penis (I've got one - wheee!) I would rather see the recipe at the top of the post so I can immediately see if I want to read further instead of slogging through 42 glamor shots to discover I don't have a certain ingredient and won't dream of buying it anyway (fungus!) or am lacking XYZ gadget and wouldn't bother buying one or working around it. I would guess it's because these websites aren't cookbooks, they're blogs, which implies some degree of the author writing for themself.
Predatory [jumping spiders]( URL_0 ) actually have quite good vision, but that doesn't necessarily answer your question of why *other* species of spiders have so many eyes if they don't get good vision out of it. The "secondary eyes" apparently mostly detect the direction of light and/or movement, which is presumably useful enough that they don't atrophy completely over evolutionary time (some species that live in dark caves have no eyes at all). Having enough secondary eyes that they can monitor a 360° arc would then be useful.
who says it is in order? not like there is a sequential numerology to it, we've since gotten good at numbering the letters to assign positions to it, and thats helpful for many things, but still does not prove its in order. all we know is that the order is more or less, unchanged since the first records of the alphabet dating back 3000 years. there have been a few order changes and a few more additions. but all things considered, few things can claim to be so consistent over so many years. fun gif URL_0 Or hell, maybe those damn phoenicians just liked the way the song rhymed. Not really. It's sort of loosely based on the Greek alphabet. That's actually where the word alphabet comes from (the first two Greek letters are Alpha and Beta). It has to be in some order for many reasons, but it's mostly arbitrary. It's based on previous alphabets, which in turn are based on those that came before, but go back far enough and someone just made it up. Organization. Being able to put any set of things in an understandable order no matter how different they are.
A lot of modern cars use LEDs, now LEDs don't really dim, they actually just flash on and off really fast to give the perception of them being dimmer. So, if the same bulb is used for the high beams, then the regular headlight brightness will be achieved by dimming.
This is just a hunch, but they just do not work. The only way to lose fat is to consume less calories than you burn through out the day. So you can eat the same but exercise more, consume less calories and don't exercise any more/less or a combination of eating less calories and exercising more. It really is that simple. Stay clear of these "miracle" creams and the like. The same way traditional snake oil works, and that's by slimming your *wallet*, which kind of does have an overall slimming affect to the waistline, just not what you were after. "Slimming pills" are usually either amphetamines or closely related to amphetamines. They work by suppressing your appetite rather than by accelerating your metabolism. Slimming gels do not work at all. Fat can't be 'dissolved', it has to be expended by the body in one way or another before it will go away. They don't. That particular site, I bet you'd get a tub of petroleum jelly if you ordered it, if you got anything at all. It screams "scam." But that aside, no, externally applied "fat burning" gels don't work. There is some evidence that extreme cold applied in exactly the right ways to exactly the right areas can cause cell damage and thus a flushing of fat from those cells, but that is absolutely not something that's even remotely possible with externally-applied gels.
In a word: Tradition. Horse-related occupations (racing, breeding, etc) tend to be very traditionalist and old-fashioned, so they still use the old-fashioned measurements.
Several recent studies have shown that 90+% of folks with reported history of penicillin allergy are not allergic when tested. This probably happens for three reasons: 1. Common side effects of medication and infections may be misinterpreted as signs of allergy, e.g. developed a rash while on medication. 2. Not all "hypersensitivity" reactions are allergies, which are caused by a very specific chemical - IgE antibodies, not IgM, IgG, or cell-mediated. The other types of reactions don't show up in some allergy tests. 3. It seems like people frequently outgrow penicillin allergies. This happens with many allergies, but not all. For example, kids are much more likely to outgrow a cow's milk allergy than a peanut allergy. The first two reasons basically argue that the allergy never existed. Source: I am a physician Most people that think they are allergic are actually not. It usually is a misunderstanding that leads to the label. eg A kid develops diarrhea while using penicillin - which is a common side effect. The doctor blames the penicillin and the mother assumes he is allergic. And you are doomed to the hell of expensive antibiotics with more side effects for the rest of your life. Penicillin allergy is life threatening. You will not find a doctor that will give you penicillin - just to see if you are still allergic. Even if your test comes back negative, I doubt that anybody will prescribe penicillin for you. The test is used for when you have a life threatening infection and only penicillin will work. Then the doctors will prescribe penicillin if you are negative. As a pharmacist, this is one of those things that drive me crazy. We have to ask every new patient for allergies, and about 25% of people will often report a PCN allergy. Every time I see this, I always ask the patient, "What did PCN do to you?" Most of the time the response is diarrhea or stomach cramps. These are not true allergic reactions... just side effects. I always take a moment and attempt to educate the patient about that. It may seem trivial, but in the big scheme of medical treatments, its a pretty big deal! It's common for young kids to either grow into to an allergy or out of it as their immune system encounters more things and changes. A lot of childhood viruses also causes rashes and can make it seem there's an allergy. You can see an allergy specialist to test out of being allergic. There are enough antibiotics out there that you can probably safely avoid it for the rest of your life without an issue. Skin testing can be expensive (I live in the States) but is an effective way of finding out if you have a life threatening allergy. Most adults I test end up tolerating the test and turn out to not be allergic to penicillin.
There is a natural inflation. Every ton of ore taken from a mine was further away than the one before. We exploit the best parts first so there is additional cost from then on. A mining company would like to raise the price of the ore as fast as the cost of extracting it increases whether the market would allow it or not. When it becomes more difficult to do something the price should rise. Oil prices are beginning to rise again. When fuel costs rise the cost of everything rises. The cost of going to work rises. If we assign the true cost of burning coal to the generating companies then the price of electricity will rise. When basic costs rise then it dries up the cost of almost everything. If wages also rise then there is another factor raising costs of goods and services. This raises income taxes which means there is more income for the government. The national debt remains the same. So there is more money available to pay off the national debt. Inflation forces people to spend money by increasing the "cost" of holding on to money. When every dollar you have loses 1% of its value every year, it makes taking risks and investing in other things more attractive, which grows the economy's real value. For that reason, the Federal Reserve has an inflation target of 1-2% yearly - just enough to make people move money around, but not enough to make money worthless. Deflation is bad for the same reason: when people make money by sitting on cash, they don't spend it, and the real value of the economy drops. URL_0 You might find these previous answers informative. (and remember to search ;P) The short version is it's *technically* not necessary, but (extremely) helpful. Low, steady inflation (~2%, though that number is debated) gives wiggle room, so that when a recession hits, we don't enter deflation (negative inflation) which is extremely damaging to economic growth, and it's also something we don't really know how to stop well. We do, however, know how to lower inflation easily. Positive inflation also spurs people to spend- if your money is worth less tomorrow, you're better off investing it into something today, which leads to economic growth overall. That means faster technology/productivity in the long run We could try to live at 0 inflation (and there are a lot of people who suggest it, because inflation seems like 'stealing'), but the strong consensus among economists (as well as the evidence we have)is that we'd just be shooting ourselves in the foot. It would give the central bank(the Fed,in the US case)/government much less room to handle a recession,and would slow economic growth in the long run- far far more than small inflation hurts. tldr: Yes, it's a necessary 'evil' that helps a lot more than it hurts. It's counter intuitive, especially when you look at cases where it got out of control before we understood it.(Weimar, Zimbabwe)
Entropy man. It takes more energy to keep something "clean" or "arranged" than it does to let it go to chaos and become a mess. Put a bunch of strings in a box and shake it. Things will get tangled up quickly, and take more time/energy from you to untie/unknot the item(s). User /u/crnaruka answered this best in this thread: URL_0
In the olden days, credit cards were often not scanned with the mag strip, because the equipment was still too expensive for smaller retailers. What they did instead was use a carbon paper and a roller machine to take an imprint of the front of the credit card with the numbers. This was commonly part of the receipt, and one copy would be torn off and given to the customer. The problem with this, of course, is that now all these receipts you are just throwing away left and right have your whole card number on them. This is where the extra numbers on the back to confirm an online(or at the time, over the phone) purchase can be used, if you only had a receipt you found with the front of someone's card, you would not have all the numbers needed to complete a transaction. Two main reasons: 1. They're in a different spot than the main credit card number, so if you get a picture of the credit card you still can't use it because you don't have the security code. 2. On systems that save your credit card number, they are not supposed to save your security code, which means you need to type it in in order to place an order. That means that if someone else gets access to my computer or login, they can't order stuff for themselves because they don't have my security code. The same goes if the seller's system gets compromised, enabling hackers to access our credit card numbers - but they can't use them without the security code. To add to /u/Dacke comment... Android Pay is actually way more secure because when it transmits a credit card, it actually transmits a one-time credit card generated just for this transaction, so stealing it is pointless. As with any security system any time you have _static_ or non-changing information it is considered easy to individually compromise. The new chip in new credit cards in america means that you never actually transmit the credit card number to the payment system. Instead you transmit an identifier and a rolling code. The code is verified by the server to verify legitimacy. Since reading the code is pointless since it changes by algorithm every few seconds you have a much more foolproof system. So _at least_ the card readers in every store are no longer attack-vectors for credit card theft. Previously you hack a credit card reader provider and you get _everything_. edit: I'm sorry I think I mixed up android pay and the older Google wallet. It's not just three extra digits, it's a separate code that is used very differently. The credit card number identifies the card, can be read by card readers from the magnetic strip, and is stored by merchants' systems that store your card information. Or, if they use the old machines that make an imprint of the card, that number is on the imprint (which means the full credit card number is on the receipt). The CVV code (the three extra digits) is just written - on the back of the card, with no raised plastic, so it won't appear in imprints and won't be as easy for people to see or photograph. It is *not* stored when your card number is stored, and PCI (the standard in the US that companies that take credit card numbers are required to abide by) places more restrictions on where you can keep that number. It can only be temporarily kept for use during a single transaction, and that's it. There is a set of regulations that dictate the payment card industry called PCI. if you want to do anything with payment cards you have to be PCI compliant. One of the major things in PCI compliance is you cannot store the CVV (those digits). You also cannot store the mag stripe data. This makes it hard to copy a card from legitimate hardware. It also allows companies to tell how you used your card. Merchants are charged different rates for "card present" (you physically swiped your card) and "card not present" (you typed in your card number, like an online purchase). There are other categories and large companies can negotiate rates. The numbers are also present on the back of the card, which makes copying the numbers more difficult. If I wanted to steal your credit card number with the CVV I'd have to see both sides of your card. This means is most likely need physical possession of the card, I cannot sneak a picture. When you combine these features it makes it more difficult to steal someone's card number. It doesn't make it impossible but does out up enough barriers to stop a good amount of low-level thieves. Furthermore the way the numbers are used with mandatory industry standards they serve a purchase for the men behind the curtains that run the show. Lastly I've called the digits CVV but different companies and networks may have a different name for them. They serve the same purpose though. Those numbers are not "stored" or "remembered" by merchants. This makes purchases more safe by verifying that you likely have physical possession of the card. If you just added the three digits to the main card it would defeat the purpose of the security measure. Merchants who do not check this code each time are more likely to process orders with stolen credit card information. These codes are something for merchants to check, not to help you. What you(as a credit card user) just need to do, is check your money activity regularly. You can get your money back due to fraud via a backsies(a chargeback) as long as you notice it within 120 days(visa rules) from the transaction date. The money will then be taken from the merchant for being a meanie who ran your card. Even if the merchant checked your billing address(called AVS) and this code(CVV) they will still be responsible if you say it isn't you. there is a separate security code (CVV2) on the back of your credit card to allow there to be a different code for cardholder manual entered transactions (e.g. online and phone, not fallback) to those done with magnetic swipe (CVV) and in more recent times yet another one when the chip is used (iCVV). The most obvious of demonstrable reasons to have this is so that your card can't be skimmed and then used to do online or phone transactions. Unfortunately given it is static in nature its can obviously be bypassed by taking a photo of the back of the card. To add extra levels of security Visa\Mastercard\etc do have services like secret question\answers etc. In regards to why they don't just make card numbers longer... quite a few reasons but a few are - - if they've stolen your number it doesn't matter if its 5 digits or 50 digits. - 16 is enough. thinking of just visa and cards starting with 4, theres 140 trillion valid card numbers or something. More than enough really. (Do note that the card number itself has its own check digit at the end) - it makes more sense to think of these CVVs (Card Verification Value) as codes to validate that the piece of plastic being read or referenced is actually from your bank. Technically the code is generated using a key known to your bank and the card scheme, the card number, the expiry date (in some format) and the service code (basics of what kind of card it is, and some rules. Generally this number is substituted so you get a different CVV codes) isn't the CVV also a checksum to ensure that a valid cards details are entered? from what I understand, this 3 digit number is not completely random, but is derived from an algorithm running through the 16 digits and expiry date of the card. the algorithm can reach any of a set of multiple 3 digit ids, though - one of this smaller set of numbers is assigned at random to every credit card. the way the checksum works is that when a credit card number is entered, the algorithm is played back in reverse to validate the details entered - this is usually done on the page itself.
Korean uses an alphabet called hangul. Individual letters are composed into syllables, with each syllable occupying one block. This means that the computer needs to know when you have finished typing one syllable and want to start typing the next: fortunately, the Korean writing system has very strict and simple rules that are quite easy to program into a computer. A syllable must start with a consonant, and must contain at least one vowel; it can then have another consonant at the end. The consonant letter "ㅇ" is "ng" at the end of a syllable, but silent at the beginning of a syllable, so this lets you write syllables beginning with a vowel *sound* without breaking the rule that in written Korean, all syllables must begin with a consonant. In your example, "saranghae" is "사랑해", the three blocks representing the syllables "sa-rang-hae". First, you type an "s", which in Korean is "ㅅ". Next comes a vowel, "ㅏ"; when you type that, the "ㅅ" changes to "사", the syllable "sa". That's fine, but then you type the Korean "r", which is "ㄹ", but the computer initially thinks that you are typing the syllable "sar" or "sal", and so it gives you "살". At this point you panic, because that's not what you want. But don't worry, because the moment you type the next letter -- another "ㅏ" -- the software knows that you can't start a Korean syllable with a vowel letter. And so now it knows that the "ㄹ" needs to go in the second syllable, changes the "살" back to "사" and starts a new syllable "라". Now you type "ㅇ", and the "라" changes to "랑", the syllable "rang". Next, type "ㅎ". This is a consonant, so the computer knows that it can leave "랑" exactly as it is and start a new syllable. Finally, you type "ㅐ", the "ㅎ" changes to "해" and you're done. So in fact, if everything is working properly, you should just be able to type the Korean letters "ㅅ", "ㅏ", "ㄹ", "ㅏ", "ㅇ", "ㅎ" and "ㅐ", and the software will automatically convert it to "사랑해" without you having to do anything else. You do have to make sure you have a Korean keyboard and you have switched it to accept Korean (a Korean keyboard can be toggled between Korean and English input; for example, if you want to type a web address, you normally have to use English input mode). Korean isn't a logographic language like Chinese. It has an alphabet, just like English, made up of consonants and vowels. The major difference between Korean and English (and other alphabetic languages) is that in Korean, you group the letters of each syllable and write them on top of each other. 사랑해 ("saranghae") is just made up of three syllables - 사, 랑, 해 - and each of these is made up of two or three letters: * 사 = ㅅ + ㅏ * 랑 = ㄹ + ㅏ + ㅇ * 해 = ㅎ + ㅐ
I haven't noticed that, but it's probably meant to make you think you're buying a premium product... All part of the marketing. Brands want to have a point of difference. If Kettle is the exact same as another brand, what reason do you have to buy Kettle?
I'm pretty sure this has to do with quality of sleep not quantity. Sleeping for 8 hours but constantly waking up is no different than 5 or 6 hours of *good* sleep. It also depends on your circadian rhythm - which can change due to environmental factors/life changes and hormones. With that said I think if you're used to getting up at 11am with 8 hours of sleep, but you're forced to get up at 8am with 8 hours of sleep you may still feel groggy. This all theory though and I don't really have any supporting evidence to back it up. Just to clear up some myths going around here: > The interesting thing is that the brain doesn't record events that happen when you wake up if you were only awake for less than 3 minutes. This is kind of ridiculous--your body doesn't randomly shut down whenever it wants. How much you remember during sleep entirely depends on the stage of sleep you are in. You don't remember much in N3 or REM sleep. You remember quite a bit in N1 sleep. > Not being hydrated You don't become catastrophically dehydrated overnight. Humans aren't delicate creatures who wilt overnight--we're *made* to sleep. Excessive confusion as a result of dehydration is a medical emergency. What you are describing is called sleep inertia. There are lots of possibilities: - Incomplete sleep--waking in the middle of a sleep cycle rather than at the end of a sleep cycle - Hormones--if you wake up in the middle of REM sleep, for example, you still have a lot of melatonin in your system - Depression - Alcohol use - Sleeping medications and other medications - Irregular sleep schedule--going to sleep and waking up at very different times like if you did shift work - Sleep disruptions and poor sleep quality overall - A condition or disorder like sleep apnea
URL_0 There's a link to the same question /u/js569 explains: There are two types of sensations, fine and crude. Pain is an example of a crude sensation and touch is an example of a fine sensation. Both crude and fine sensory pathways are activated together, and when they are, the fine sensations generally overwhelm the crude sensations. That's why when you feel pain, touching it makes it feel better. Because the brain thinks there is an irritation there and gives you a pleasure sensation to scratch that area.
It's a combination of a number of factors, but the biggest issue is that phone lines have been "optimized" to favor voice sounds over other sounds, and as a result many of the upper and lower frequencies that make up the music you're listening to get cut out by the phone's filters. In other words, it doesn't sound like voice, so it gets cut. The result is that the music you hear is messed up. Combine that with systems that play low quality music files/sources to begin with and you can see how things get really bad. They are compressed to hell and have the bit rate lowered so that they can be transmitted over traditional phone lines. Phone lines only transmit the narrow range of frequencies that are used in human speech. Music is comprised of a much wider range of frequencies, and sounds bad when a large amount of them are removed.
Its basically pure sugar, so any mold or bacteria that touch it die because the concentration of sugar outside their cells causes water to leave them by osmosis and they shrivel and die. There are a lot of answers here that *answer* the question but not to a satisfying level of detail so I'll take a swing. The main reason is because honey is almost completely sugar. That high sugar concentration dehydrates any cells that try to take up residence through osmosis. (Osmosis being like a gravitational pull toward balance.) If there's water inside of a cell that falls into the honey, the honey will pull water out of the cell until the proportion of water to sugar inside the cell is equal to the proportion outside the cell. Since the honey had such a high sugar content, a single cell just doesn't have enough water in it to make a dent in that so the honey ends up pulling nearly all the water out of the cell, killing it in the process. There are some things that can survive without any water; botulism spores have already been brought up and are a great example of why we pasteurise honey, despite how well it kills bacteria on its own. There are other properties that play lesser roles like a chemical secreted by the bees called defensin-1 which works as an antibiotic but these other properties pale in comparison to the mighty osmotic pressure. What this means, though, is that, yes, honey has antimicrobial properties but the main one (osmosis) goes away the moment you dilute it because the balance mentioned earlier is much easier to reach if the overall solution has a lower percentage of sugar. In turn, that means that honey does not pass it's abilities on to you by drinking it since you dilute it with your saliva and stomach acid. In other words, if someone tells you it will help fight off a cold because of its antimicrobial properties, they don't know what they're talking about. It will, however, make your throat feel better temporarily but that's another ELI5. Honey can expire if it has too much water in it, which it can pull from the air if it is stored improperly. Bees will actually cap the honey comb when the moisture of the honey gets too high (around 16-17%) so it cannot absorb any more water. Moisture above 18% can ~~cause~~ allow the honey to ferment, which would effectively spoil the honey. When honey is processed by a beekeeper, it is typically done in a humidity controlled environment to avoid over hydration. Honey, if stored properly (dry and airtight), can last thousands of years because of its sugar content and natural antibacterial properties. It will often crystallize when stored for a long time, but this does not mean the honey is bad. Simply warm it and it will turn back to honey. All of these top answers are pretty much wrong. Not really so much to do with the sugar, but not too far off. I wrote a paper about this, so I will tell you about honey and more at an age above 5. When bees gather pollen from flowers, they add an enzyme called invertase to break it down into two sugars: glucose and fructose. When the bee returns to the hive and regurgitates the nectar into the honeycomb it adds one more enzyme called glucose oxidase. This creates trace amounts hydrogen peroxide in the honey. Yes, the same hydrogen peroxide that your mother poured on your scrapes and cuts, and the same one that keeps everything it touches clean and sanitary. The bee then flaps its wings over the honey until all the water has left. The lack of water and the existence of hydrogen peroxide makes it a rough place for any bacteria to live. Civilizations as far back as the ancient Sumerians know that honey helps treat wounds. It prevents bacteria and moisture from entering while at the same time, sucks moisture out of the wound. A visit to Boca's Gumbo Limbo Nature Preserve shows how in their sea turtle rehabilitation, honey treatments are frequently and effectively placed over cracks and other exposed injuries to protect damaged sea turtles from developing infections. Eating local honey also can help immunize against local allergies. As an informal study from Xavier University in New Orleans found, bees gather small amounts of pollen that could normally trigger allergies.2 But eating that honey introduces tiny amounts into you, and allows your immune system to build up tolerance to common allergens. The positive aspects of honey continue. The National Journal of Biological Sciences research suggest that honey may be a great tool in the management of diabetes. Honey raises your blood sugar much less, and requires much less insulin to break down then the sugar found in most foods. Using it as a substitute could not only help combat diabetes mellitus at early stages, but also due to its anti-lipidemic effect, can fight against obesity. Like any good thing, honey can also have its drawback. While anyone old enough to read this can enjoy the full fledged benefits of the golden nectar, it is not recommended for infants. Toxicologist Charles Santerre recommend waiting until the baby is 12 months old before you introduce honey into the diet. Honey can rarely contain a bacteria called Clostridium botulinum which could affect an infant's immature digestive tract and cause infant botulism. While it may not allow much bacteria to thrive, it can still contain botulism spores that can thrive. I've been eating raw honey for years with no problems until a batch I got from a local farm this summer. It has been a disaster with lingering symptoms. Now I buy honey from the market that must be pasteurized. Undiluted, honey has a pH level that no bacteria can survive in. It may not taste good but some honey found in the pyramids was edible after thousands of years. [Here]( URL_0 ) is an article about it. "The high sugar concentration, hydrogen peroxide, and the low pH are well-known antibacterial factors in honey and more recently, methylglyoxal and the antimicrobial peptide bee defensin-1 were identified as important antibacterial compounds in honey." IUBMB Life. 2012 Jan;64(1):48-55. doi: 10.1002/iub.578. Epub 2011 Nov 17. Honey never expires because the water that is present in the honey is molecular and/or chemically bounded (trapped). Water becomes bonded through their strong electrical attraction (polarity), this can happen through water-ion and water-dipole interactions. This is important to know because Many microorganism, such as the types of bacteria and yeast which are associated with food spoilage, require moisture (water) to grow and reproduce. You have probably bounded water yourself. When you throw salt on the sidewalk, the salt intercuts with the water trapping the molecules and preventing them from expanding (freezing) therefore lowering their freezing point and preventing snow from building up. But as we know it will eventually freeze. Back to honey- All foods have what is called a water activity (Aw)., with 1.0 being the maximum possible. To show an example: Fresh meat has a water activity of 0.985, while potato chips/crisps have a water activity of 0.08. The bacteria associated with food spoilage require a minimum of 0.90 to survive, grow and reproduce. Yeast require a minimum of 0.80 and 0.70 for mold. There are exceptions of course which I can name if you guys are interested. At low water activities, microorganisms die because water inside the cell diffuses out in an effort to balance the osmotic pressure. So basically the cells dehydrate and die because the water leaves theirs cell. This is why honey never expires, it has a very low water activity, preventing it from supporting the growth of micro organisms that would cause it to spoil. Source: B.S in Nutrition with a concentration in Food Science. That included 4 classes of Food Micro-Biology. You know how you feel when your sweater's too tight? Well, the sugar inside honey feels the same way. There's too much sugar for the water to contain. So it tries to take water from anything around it. Even germs. Your skin's too thick to take your blood, so you're safe. But germs, their skin is thinner than paper. So when it tries to suck out their blood, it succeeds. And they can't live without their blood, so they can't eat it and make more germs like they would on other food. Honey is sugar in water, but so much more sugar than is normally allowed that it's all gel-y and also very very dry. Micro-organisms that eat sugar and normally lead to something going "bad" need water to live, and find it hard to get into. Additionally, honey has antibiotics and antifungals inside it (among other things) which stop bacteria or fungus from easily eating it. (Accurate enough and could actually be read to a five year old, I think) bacteria need water to survive. what little water is in honey is locked up by the sugar and unavailable to the bacteria.
when you look at a number like 4,367, what you're really looking at is the sum: 4(1000) + 3(100) + 6(10) + 7(1) which is a **power series**: 4(10^(3)) + 3(10^(2)) + 6(10^(1)) + 7(10^(0)) That is, each "digit" corresponds to a **power** of 10. It's actually a sum of infinitely many terms, where all but finitely many have the coefficient 0: ... + 0(10^(-3)) + 0(10^(-2)) + 0(10^(-1)) + 7(10^(0)) + 6(10^(1)) + 3(10^(2)) + 4(10^(3)) + 0(10^(4)) + 0(10^(5)) + 0(10^(6)) + ... if you wanted to, you could switch this to any base you wanted. for instance, if you wanted to express it in terms of powers of 7: 1(7^(4)) + 5(7^(3)) + 5(7^(2)) + 0(7^(1)) + 6(7^(0)) or 15,506 That's just an arbitrary example, but it actually works out that you can do this with *any* number other than 0. You could work in base 12, base 34.572, or even irrational bases like π. Some interesting properties arise when you switch to a different base. For instance, using a ternary (base 3) expansion, Giuseppe Peano proved that you can map the real line (think the x-axis on the plane) onto the unit square [0,1]^2 (the square with corners (0,0), (0,1), (1,1), (1,0)) - basically, choose a point in the unit square, and it will correspond to (at least) one real number. This was mind-blowing at the time because it forced people to rethink the idea of dimensions - you can use one dimension to cover a two-dimensional object! He exploits the properties of base 3 [to do it]( URL_0 ). The reason we like expressing really really big numbers in terms of base 10 is because... well... it's familiar. It's really easy to get an idea of relative sizes when you compare things in the same base. Would you know, off the top of your head, which of 12525^27 or 235^30 is bigger? It's a balance between having longer numbers (small base) or too many symbols to keep track of (large base). The reason we don't have base 1000 is because no one wants to learn 1000 symbols- it's easier to just use metric prefixes. Software developers do commonly work with hexadecimal (base 16, so equivalent to four bits) and less commonly with octal (base 8, so equivalent to three bits) because binary is so long. Data over the Internet is often base-64 encoded to make it easier to transmit.
That's a broad generalization. More accurately, glass and sand are made of the same substance (silicon dioxide). Sand is the solid form, glass is made by melting it to change it chemical properties. However, glass has additives in it to prevent it dissolving and for other purposes. There are many other substances which are clear when they melt but have color or opacity when solid, especially if they aren't pure (water/ice, candle wax, and others). Going beyond ELI5 for a minute: When you melt silicon dioxide it undergoes chemical changes that mean it will never solidify again. Glass is technically neither a solid nor a liquid (and technically both, as well). It is what we call an amorphous solid, since its atoms are arranged in an irregular pattern, which goes against the definition of a solid, but it doesn't behave like a liquid, either (does not take the shape of its container, no evaporation, no volatility, etc). There is some disagreement on how to classify these substances which is why I said it's a solid AND a liquid, but it's also neither based on traditional definitions. Heating sand to a very high temperature will turn it into a liquid, then when it cools it turns into glass.
Depressed people tend not to be able to do the work required to maintain relationships. They are not "fun to be around" and are often consumed with their own issues rather than engaged with others. People who understand what's going on can sometimes weather the neglect and remain friends. Others accept the distance. People with depression can be depressing themselves, sometimes. They tend to display a constant stream of apathy and negativity that makes it difficult to continue relationships with. Usually in the short term this isn't a problem, but if it stretches on for long periods of time, you'll start to see a combination of friends actively leaving and others who have simply learned that if they try to do something with the depressed person, that person will either say "no" or tend to just go through the motions with no enthusiasm. It's a little bit of a touchy subject because that makes it sound like the blame is on the depressed person, when it's really not on anyone in particular. Depressed people frequently can't help it (beyond getting treatment, which doesn't always work right away), but at the same time others won't set themselves on fire to keep someone else warm in the long term.
All things considered, the US is a really right wing country. To the point that Hillary Clinton would have been the equivalent of a tea party candidate in most European countries. In that sense, your question asking about left wing extremism is kinda moot since there basically aren't any left wing extremists. Radical communists is the closest thing I can think of, and there just aren't many commies in good ol' Uncle Sam. In the USA, leftists are usually supportive of *more* government services, and are comfortable with public (government) ownership of land. So seizing facilities from the government isn't consistent with their views. But why don't they seize facilities from big private corporations? Basically because the USA is extremely pro-corporate. They would not receive much support from the average member of the public, and none from the police. The general public doesn't even support protests that briefly interrupt freeway traffic to protest murder.
Android? It's a popular topic that Snapchat on iOS produces much better images than on Android, and an answer I saw was because the Android version only screencaps your live-preview and actually doesn't use the camera to take a picture. So, whatever app you are talking about may do the same. However, worse focusing doesn't make sense, unless it can somehow alter the focusing priority like on a DSLR (spot focus, dynamic, full auto, etc.). depending on the app, the default one may be designed specifically for your phone's hardware, wheras the ones in many apps will be very general to coer a wider range of hardware- and, often, won't have much money put in to the actual interface software (buying access to a cheap picture capturing library to get to the bare minimum) A better app that functions above and beyond stock might cost more money and need to be produced fully in house, or require purchasing a more expensive library, and might need to be designed specifically towards the hardware if your particular phone. It may not be known to every user but your phone actually has two individual cameras for videos and photos that have different properties. Your stock camera app uses the latter one (except if you are actually in video mode), which produces higher quality pictures in most situations and has more software post-processing applied to for example avoid motion blur or improve image quality in dark environments. The drawback of this camera is however a bigger delay between the moment you activate the camera and the actual moment the picture is taken, and switching between this camera and the video one takes about a second. Snapchat or other Apps that don't have a serious need for high image quality exclusively use single frames recorded by the video camera for photos to give you a better feeling of actually taking a snapshot of exactly what you see when you're hitting the button. Also they allow you to take both videos and photos in the same moment without any delay or change of perspective. The drawback is that most post-processing of the image is skipped this way and the camera has no time to actually fix focus or blur issues before taking the photo. For me it's the stock camera that has a shitty focus and anything else that works. Stock camera app can't focus unless the flash is on.
supply and demand. There are not many people who will pay to watch a math mathematician work. There are many people who enjoy sporting events enough to pay to watch either via broadcast or even more to watch in person, and even more to be closer to the ball. This sets up a basic sports economy where the more popular you are to watch the more money you command. Money is not awarded for jobs based upon the effort or dedication required to complete them, but by the resources available to the party offering them and the amount they would need to expend to achieve the desired result. What that means is that trying really hard for a long time doesn't guarantee you a good paycheck. People who want something from other people, such as work of any kind, are going to purchase the services of whoever can do them at the lowest price. They are also limited by what they can afford; if solving a math problem doesn't make the buyer any money then even a $20 payout is a loss. Athletes on the other hand are entertainers who are very effective at bringing in viewers. A "better" athlete may bring in another $100 million in revenue for people wanting to see them, so if they need to pay $5 million more to obtain their services as opposed to them working/playing for another team it is well worth the price. Because athletes bring in hundreds of millions of dollars of profit by way of ticket sales to sporting events, and all of the ancillary industries (concession sales in sporting arenas, selling of collectibles, advertisement slots in television broadcasts, etc). No one pays to watch mathematicians solve problems.
People tend to get sick more often when it's cold for two main reasons. First, people tend to gather inside and closer together more. This increases the opportunities to spread germs. It also means people are less likely to be going out and getting sunshine/exercise and doing other things that generally keep you healthy. Second, cold air dries out your nasal passages and suppresses your immune response there. As a result, it's easier for germs to infect you when you breathe them in. That's why there's an increase in colds in winter. A third, sort of related reason specific to the flu is that the flu virus survives better in drier air. Cold air holds less moisture, so it's generally drier. As a result, the flu virus tends to do better in the cold than in the heat. I'm no expert, but from what I've learned, it's not the cold weather that makes us sick, it's what we DO when it's cold. During the winter, we tend to lock ourselves up inside. We start going outside less, and we even drink less water cause it gets so cold. Germs start building up and they multiply even more since we crank up the heat in our homes, then these said germs start impacting our immune system and then we get sick.
The swimsuit is made of special fabric that absorbs as little water as possible. There is water between the fibers, but none inside them. Some clothes will dry quickly, but the nice soft snugly clothes have cotton or wool in them. Those fabrics absorb water into the fibers, taking much longer to dry.
They have different mechanisms of action, the common denominator of being addictive doesn't really say a whole lot. Xanax is GABAergic, which is something most depressants share: they act on a specific type of receptor causing disinhibition and sedation because there's more GABA (a chemical that stops and slows down processes so to speak) floating around. Adderal/amphetamine is a stimulant which causes more adrenaline, and dopamine most notably to be produced, responsible for increased energy and in many cases anxiety and agitation opposite to that of a GABAergic drug. Withdrawing from adderal normally just means you feel shitty and crave more from the dopamine crash; not immediately life threatening. GABA on the other hand is essential for tonnes of important functions in your body, and if your body's used to having more of it, then it doesn't work as effectively at baseline. Adderal is a stimulant. Xanax is a depressant. They are very different drugs, used for different purposes. Some drugs have the potential to create significant physical dependency. Some drugs do not. Xanax is from a class of drugs called the benzodiazepines. That class includes Valium and Ativan. Benzos are known for creating physical dependency. Typically doctors will wean patients off of them slowly in order to prevent serious possible complications such as sleeplessness, extreme anxiety, and seizures.
Consciousness tests. Things like setting up a mirror and watching to see if the critter figures out that they're seeing themselves or if they think they're seeing another critter. There are plenty of others, but that one is basic and persuasive. And the answer is that several other species are self aware. Do you mean self-aware? Or self-conscious? /u/open_door_policy interpreted your question as self-aware, meaning an animal understanding that it's a thing by itself, distinct from others. It's difficult to define clearly, so it's easier to just say that it's what the [mirror test]( URL_0 ) and similar tests show. Self-conscious usually means being embarrassed in the presence of others, nervous that they're looking at you and know something embarrassing about you. I'm sure you can find pictures at r/aww and elsewhere that look like an animal is acting self-conscious, but that's anthropomorphizing. I don't know if there's any way to define or test for it scientifically, as how could you reliably distinguish between being afraid and being embarrassed?
Acne is a "multi-factor" process. Dirt/bacteria from the environment isn't the only or biggest reason for acne. 1. Sebum 2. Androgen/Testerone 3. P. Acnes Bacteria 4. Keratin 5. Dead skin cells 6. Clogged pore First you have Sebaceous glands that release sebum which help lubricate your face for protection to keep foreign bodies, but when sebum gets stuck in the gland it's like glue. Androgen (male) hormones help push the sebum out of your glands, but when you have a change in hormone levels, sebum is pushed out more rapidly and if the gland is blocked, the sebum is collecting inside while not being pushed out. In our bodies we have the P. Acnes bacteria: it is an anaerobic bacteria and therefore cannot survive in an environment with oxygen. So the P. Acnes bacteria thrives when the gland is blocked because there is no oxygen and it feeds off of our sebum. Keratin makes parts of our bodies harder (heh). The mixture of sebum, bacteria and keratin becomes a hard plug under the skin. Just to add to the fun, dead skin cells also collect inside, especially if they are not washed off correctly. When the gland remains closed off, nothing can secrete out of it. The clogged gland is at this point, filled with P. Acnes bacteria, old sebum, dead skin cells, hard keratin and androgen hormones are trying to push it all out on schedule but everything is stuck inside the gland with nowhere to go. This is what forms a pimple/pustule. That is the basic process of acne. The sebaceous glands are only located on certain parts of your body and therefore are not effected by this process. So your hands and feet aren't going to form pimples just because they touch dirt. One could say the main cause is the P. Acnes bacteria. But the right conditions need to be met in order for a pimple to form. Source: Had cystic acne Not an expert here but I believe it is caused by the sebaceous glands becoming blocked. Since there are many more sebaceous glands on the face, more chances for them to become blocked. Sebaceous glands excrete oil, known as sebum, to help lubricate the skin. When they become clogged, the gland continues excreting sebum. With the gland clogged, it becomes inflamed and thus, a pimple. I'll take a swing at a possible explanation, albeit I'm no expert on the subject so maybe I can give something to think about until the experts roll in. So for starters, pimples are caused by inflammation of your pores. This is typically due to a bacterial infection, where the bacteria seep in to the pore, then your body attacks it which causes the redness, swelling, and puss. Although the pore itself may become blocked by oil which also results in pimples. Now as to why it specifically happens more on the face, the answer is it generally doesn't. Acne occurs primarily in areas which are ripe in hair follicles. Thus why back acne, and pubic acne exist, and you may sometimes find acne on your arms and bum. This is due to the sebaceous glands, which secrete sebum, or oil, on to the hair follicle. Because of them neighboring so close together, there's the greater chance of bacteria getting in, although it's attacked pretty quickly and doesn't penetrate further. Along with that, sebum can sometimes get blocked up and cause acne that way as well. While hair follicles are found throughout the body, sebaceous glands are primarily found in the facial, chest, and pubic regions. Thus why they're more prevalent in these areas. Acne is, basically, a clogged pore (hair follicle) that becomes infected (by a specific strain of bacteria). Factors that reduce the frequency of infection include: * desquamation (exfoliation) * sebum production (how much oil your skin exudes) * hygiene (how sanitary your skin is) Some reasons acne is more common on the face: * The skin on your face is thinner than skin on most other parts of the body. * The skin on your face also produces more sebum than other parts of your body. * We don't exfoliate our faces as much (friction from clothing helps with body). Found that changing out your pillowcase often (daily is best) helps prevent some acne from developing. Pass it on...
Fissile material isn't exactly easy to come by. A fission bomb (which by today's standards would be a fairly primitive nuclear weapon) requires uranium that has been enriched to 90% U-235. Natural uranium in contrast contains less than 1% U-235 and reactor-grade uranium for power generation only requires 3-5% enrichment. Most uranium is enriched by centrifuge and that is a very slow and expensive process. Iran, for example, had about 9,000 operational centrifuges in 2015 and it still would have taken 7 months to stockpile enough uranium for one weapon. That said, most states would be capable of building a nuclear weapon if they were so inclined. What stops them is that almost all countries on Earth are signatories to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (Iran included) which means they have pledged not to build nuclear weapons or help other states acquire them.
These shows are always a bit of fun and play creatively with the truth. Indeed ballistics isn't as cut and dried as "every gun has a unique fingerprint, no two can ever be the same". Marks are compared by eye, very similar guns will have very similar marks. Even much real life courtroom "science" is pretty poor science. Bite mark analysis seems to be pretty bogus. Polygraph is basically bollocks. People who've been convicted on fire pattern analysis have been getting a lot of validation now that's shown to be hugely subjective also. Forensic science came from cops, not from scientists, and so there's a lot more grey areas than claimed. I believe DNA is pretty compelling, though. Every barrel has a unique rifling, unless it's a smooth barrel like a lot of shotguns, because they don't need rifling as they are shooting shot that needs to spread out(unless it is a slug gun then it will be rifled. Also some shotguns have the option for chokes to narrow the spread pattern on the shot coming out of the barrel) The grooves that propel the bullet forward when it is coming out of the barrel end up on the bullet as it travels through the barrel. They can match the rifling in the barrel to the rifling on the bullet. Also they can match the cartridge/casing to the firing pin. As each firing pin will be a bit different and the indention left behind will be specific to that individual firearm. They can't fake it because each firearm has unique characteristics in the rifling and firing pin. Much like how all human teeth have unique characteristic as they've all been through different things. The machining of each part creates features unique to the part. - lands and grooves in the barrel impart a signature on the bullet (projectile). The number, width, depth, pitch and twist as well as striations specific to the tooling of the individual barrel can be measured and compared between a recovered bullet and one test fired from the suspect weapon. - the firing pin, breech, ejector and extractor impart a signature on the cartridge casing. These markings can also be compared between recovered cartridge casings and those resulting from test fires from a suspect weapon. Edit: The above assumes basic understanding of the mechanics/parts of a typical weapon. Since this is ELI5... when a bullet is fired, the firing pin strikes a primer on the rear of the shell; the primer ignites powder which causes an explosion; the explosion forces the cartridge casing against the breech (back of the barrel) and the bullet down down the barrel; the rifling in the barrel is made up of grooves that twist, causing the bullet to spin; an extractor pulls the cartridge casing back from the breech and an ejector kicks the cartridge casing out of the weapon.
They are most likely using Uranium-Lead (U-Pb) dating. There is a mineral called zircon that incorporates uranium while forming, but rejects lead. It is assumed that all of the lead content in the zircon is from radioactive decay. The uranium, specifically U-238 (238 being the mass number for the specific isotope), undergoes radioactive decay until it becomes Pb-206. The half-life for this decay chain is known (4.47 billion years), which means measuring the ratio of Pb-206 to U-238 can be converted to time.
When you move your body, you're creating more heat. Plus, moving around gets your heart rate going, and that gives you more blood flow, which keeps you warm. If you've ever worked out really hard in cold weather, you'll notice steam starts to come off of you. That doesn't happen when you're sitting still. When you move your body, you are using energy. Your body is not 100% efficient Some of the energy you are using is converted to heat rather than moving energy.
Your breathing, blinking etc is all controlled by your autonomous nervous system. It's like a brain within your brain that just keeps all this stuff ticking over. However, you can consciously choose to 'override' it and hold your breath, for example... but as bucketdweller points out, there will come a point where you would pass out and lapse into unconsciousness. At that point, your autonomous nervous system kicks back in and you start breathing. Unless you're David Beckham. He has to be reminded by his wife.
I found this website that has a good explaination ( URL_0 ). I'll paste the explanation below to save a click. Inhibitions It’s one of the first reasons people drink alcohol – to relax. But that means that you haven’t got the same inhibitions as usual – stress and anxiety is reduced. But that also means you don’t feel anywhere near as guilty for having an extra-large pizza when you could’ve just shared a medium. Think we’ve all been there. Science Next, alcohol stimulates the hypothalamus – the bit in your brain that deals with things like body temperature, sleep rhythm, and HUNGER. When the hypothalamus is triggered, we get hungry when we usually wouldn’t be – in particular, for unhealthy foods… Blood pressure Because alcohol is technically a poison, your body starts working to get it out of your system. The effort our body makes to process alcohol reduces its ability to keep your body’s sugar levels balanced. This drop in blood pressure may result in a sudden and strong carb craving – which explains why we not only get hungry when we drink, but why we crave carb-heavy food. Alcohol contains a lot of calories, but like other liquid calories, it doesn’t fill you up the way food does. This isn’t unreasonable – if you’re relaxed, your healthy eating intentions will go out the window. Am i the only one who looses their appetite after drinking ? I tend to not even want food until like 3 pm the next day What is a calorie? It's a measure of energy in the form of heat and it's determined by burning a measured amount of something, and seeing how much it can raise the temperature of a fixed amount of water. Not everything that burns is edible and not everything that is edible gets digested or converted into energy. A classic example is insoluble fiber. We lack the stomach to digest it, it has a calorie value, but since we can't make use of it, it doesn't really count. In the case of alcohol it is broken down by the liver, which takes time, and eventually we get some carbohydrate from it hours later. The fact that alcohols take so long to break down, is useful for delivering carbohydrates in a slow and steady manner to prevent spikes in blood sugar. For instance many diabetic candies use alcohols for sweetener because the body absorbs them so slowly. It's also important to realize that unless you're drinking a distilled spirit like vodka, you are not drinking pure alcohol (and water in the case of vodka). A beer has calories, but much of that comes from the starches and carbohydrates in the beer that didn't get converted to alcohols. The same for wine and other fermented beverages. So they have calories, but it's not all from alcohol. In the case of carbohydrates they trigger an insulin reaction, which gives you a quick boost of energy, but then your blood sugar plummets which triggers hunger. It's the same reason drinking a soda might make you hungry. There was actually an extremely relevant article posted on the BBC Health news just today! [Alcohol flips brain into hungry mode]( URL_0 ) > "It would explain why many people say they eat more when they have had a few drinks. Rather than loss of restraint, it is a neuronal response, the Francis Crick Institute team says. > ...The mice were given generous doses of alcohol for three days - a dose being equivalent to around 18 units or a bottle-and-a-half of wine for a person. The alcohol caused increased activity in neurons called AGRP. These are the neurons that are fired when the body experiences starvation." I eat nothing when I drink. I'm not hungry at all even if I haven't eaten or I've been drinking for 12+ hours Scientific America did a great post on this here. URL_0 I imagine it's for the same reason appetizers exist. It's just enough calories to get your stomach working, but not enough to satisfy it, so it starts asking for more.
The rise-over-run specifics aren't the same as regular stairs so we aren't used to the setup which makes us feel "weird" while walking up or down unmoving escalators.
Major internet service providers are just like any corporation, they're out to make as much money as possible. They charge as much as they can for their product, and spend as little as possible on infrastructure. So, while prices have continued to go up, and new ways are introduced to place fees and fines on the users. ISP have spent very little on upgrading infrastructure over the years. So, as the number of users increase, and the amount of data used by application also increases, ISP's find themselves in a bit of a bind. They haven't made any significant upgrades to their network in a decade, but they have to move all this newly demanded data. The solution, get users to use less data by introducing data caps. This way, you can charge them overages if they use too much, you can continue to add new users, all while raking in profits. As a bonus, now you can put off all those network upgrades because people have cut back on data usage, so there is no additional spending. Network congestion solved, and profits continue to go up. Happy CEO is happy.
Hi, I am a mod at /r/surveyresearch and a full time survey researcher. There is inherent noise in all data we collect. However, generally when people answer surveys they mostly tell the truth, this is backed up with empirical research where we have administrative data on the people surveyed and we compare what the participant says and what the records say. Most of the time their responses align with the responses of the "truth". Error is mostly associated with trouble with recall or understanding the question rather than purposeful inattention. We also call this phenomenon of answering randomly or answering with malicious intent, "Satisficing." It is an area of intense research from academics in the field of survey research. We can't catch it all, but we can setup various tricks to catch and remove answers that are intentionally wrong. * Randomization: If you randomize your question order and response order, a person who would pick randomly or pick the first response for each question would just appear as noise in the data, rather than a particular bias. * Logic checks: We can ask the same questions twice in different ways or we can ask a chain of questions that logically go together (i.e.,Are you a frequent smoker? Yes, How often do you smoke? Never). This would flag data for removal. * Meta/Paradata- If you complete a 20 minute survey in 5 minutes, we can kick your data out. If you straight line your answers, we can kick your data out. etc. * Attentional Checks: "How often do you smoke?(Select the 3rd answer to continue)". "Do you use [Brand that does not exist]?" We run the risk of deleting real honest responses, so these checks do not always occur. But it is available if there is concern with data quality. That being said, recent research shows that data cleaning really doesn't change the results that much for most questions. On average, it evens out as long as you have a large enough sample size. I would strongly encourage to answer surveys and answer them honestly. You have the ability to represent your interests and sway the opinion of companies and even governments by the answers you provide. Data collection isn't cheap, decision makers put a lot of value in these surveys and they will design products and even political positions around the data they get from these surveys. For a nationally representative US survey, your single response roughly represents ~606,177 adults. Your response has the power to represent, statistically speaking, an INFINITE amount of people. It is an incredible opportunity, don't waste it. EDIT- listen to the guy up there at the top for reals. If you're filling in online surveys odds are you're getting assigned an advertiser ID associated with you via various combinations of IP and MAC address, account details, cookies etc. If you fill in enough surveys to significantly affect things you'll start getting surveys with subtly bogus answers in them now and again and if you select the bogus answers regularly your entire answer history will get written off as done by a bot, clicker or randomly by a user not paying attention. Examples include asking you about a shop or service that doesn't exist. This is something a whole bunch of Google Opinion Rewards users have ran into. They fill in answers at random for a few months and then they hit the "which fleeble did you gronk regenty? A) flarb B) gonk C) deeble D) none of the above" question and answer flarb. No more survey questions for you. In larger surveys, and in any type of validated questionnaire, such as psych testing measures, etc. there are validation questions: questions that are similar to other questions. If you don't answer them consistently, then the form can get tossed because the response isn't valid. All legitimate survey results allow for a certain amount of accuracy. That's why "survey size" is vital in legitimizing the accuracy of a survey. Too small of a group, or too large in rare instances, will skew the results due to people not answering honestly or not understanding the question. Where the survey is taken is also a factor. Those who commission or actually take these surveys know this, and either determine a percent of accuracy, or use it to sway the survey in their desired direction. I never really contribute to these threads but I have a story about Google rewards that might be relevant. I was using it for pokemon go, but if you're not familiar with Google rewards it will ask you questions about places youve visited recently and will give you google wallet funds for your answers. Now pokemon go takes you to a lot of different places so I was getting a lot of surveys and just giving the answers they wanted to hear. One day a new survey pops up for me and asks me if I ever went to some funny sounding water park before. I say yes, and they ask me what my favorite attraction there was. I choose some random name of some random water slide, which leads the survey to tell me the locations I just submitted were fake and made up just to test the integrity of my answers. I have never had a new survey since. When data is compiled for surveys as well as for other research, it is put through a number of mathematical tests to determine if there are any patterns or if the data points all fall within a certain range, etc. If they size of the survey is large enough, most studies discard the outlying data points with what they assume is a reasonable amount of confidence. This is, of course, operating under the assumption that only a few and not the majority of the responders issued fake answers.
imagine that you are in a room in witch the floor is all covered in rocks. random rocks of all sizes and shapes. if you vertically drop a tennis ball it will not bounce vertically because the floor wasn't smooth. on the micro scale the wall, too, isn't smooth and the photons will scatter in every direction once they hit said wall. some of these "stray" photos will reach your eyes and that's why you can see the table. The light that reaches your eyes did bounce off into your eyes. Surfaces don't perfectly reflect light. Then they would all be mirrors! The light bounced off in all sorts of directions. Some of that light reaches your eyes.
On first introduction, our brain naturally searches to get a handle on things--do I know this individual? What can I induce about him/her from appearance? It's all about us assessing the threat/benefit level of a new situation. Your brain assesses that he/she shares traits with someone you are familiar with, acquaintance or celebrity. Then it determines if it is in fact the same person. Some people's brains are sharper at this than others'. (Personally I don't recognize most of my neighbors if they aren't in their yards/cars or with their kids/dog.) But once you get to know the individual, you tend to forget the initial similarity because by then you know so many things about him/her that are distinct. So if you are meeting the person for the first time, but your friends already know them, they will see more differences than similarities Perhaps you have poor attention to detail and thus two people to you may look very similar due to sharing some prominent features but look completely different to people who pay attention to the details. Same reason to us all chimpanzees look pretty much identical and yet they can tell each other apart just fine. Hard to say though since your situation is kind of unique to you so I don't really know how you expect any of us to know the reasons behind a very specific personal phenomenon. Here's my attempt at explanation. On seeing another person, our brain wants to be able to immediately associate features with those that you have seen before. This is one way for the brain to optimize the storage of facial features for posterity. If it is able to clump 3 individuals into the same category, it requires less resources than if it were to create a separate category for each of those 3 individuals. Now, everyone through their day-to-day comes across many faces, on media and real life alike. Our brain is working overtime to categorize and attempt to remember the facial features. Some brains are better at remembering features that others. (Perhaps in part because of being exposed to more faces. Those who work in customer service, you can imagine how many faces they have to remember) Now you and your friend come across two people and you chime "gosh they look like twinnies!", but your friend disagrees. This disagreement could be because you are able to pool them into the same category since you have been exposed to fewer faces while your friend who works in the charming world of customer service, says "nah they look nothing alike". He says this because he has been able to discern unique features which you glossed over.
Well, it's not across the board. It depends on what you're working with. It's also important to note you're talking about ionizing radiation, which is either alphas (helium 4), betas (electrons and positrons), gammas and X-rays (High frequency EM waves), and neutrons. The biggest mechanism for health problems is penetration into cells and causing cell death. It can also cause damage by breaking down chemical bonds, especially in your DNA leading to cancers. Different isotopes create different types of ionizing radiation that penetrate to different depths. Betas for example, are pretty easy to stop with just plastic- which is why it's important to wear safety glasses- betas cause cataracts. A common beta emitter is 18F, used in PET scans. Your skin does a pretty good job of stopping penetration, but your internal membranes? Not so much. That's why ingesting is so dangerous. When I get radiation dosimeter reports, they give results for skin dose, extremity dose, eye dose, and deep dose. Neutrons penetrate like a motherfucker, but they don't have long lasting effects. When the source is turned off (I.e. Particle accelerator beam hitting a target, the neutrons stop.) You're talking like 10 ft think concrete walls to stop them. As for lasting long? They all don't. All isotopes have different halflifes, from minutes (C11) to hours (F18 is 119 minutes) to thousands of years (C14)
tldr: variety is the spice of life You have asked two quite disparate questions. 1. How does texture affect the tastiness of food. Here I assume, by tastiness you are referring to the enjoyability rather than the actual number of distinguishable tastes in the food. Having textural variety tells the brain that what we are eating will cover a wide range of nutritional inputs. This is what the body needs. Our reward centers light up to teach us to eat more texturally varying foods. 2. How something crispy tastes terrible when it becomes soggy. We have come to associate crispy food with a caloric surplus. Celeries are crispy too but we don't compulsively down stalks of celery. So there are exceptions. But for the most part crispy = good! Here, again, our reward centers teach us that caloric surplus foods are encouraged. If that same food gets soggy, firstly you are expecting the food to be crispy because of prior knowledge of its underlying form. So your expectations are dashed. And secondly, soggy also entails that the food is probably wet and cold. Wet and cold foods are interpreted by our brains as being negative because usually, decomposing or rotten food is wet and cold. I have eaten day old soggy "churros" that I made myself. They didn't bear resemblance to churros in reality but tasted alike. Since I had no preconceived notions that what I was eating is supposed to be hot and crispy, I enjoyed day old soggy churros too.
Time zone boundaries tend to follow the same boundaries as countries or subdivisions in order to keep time as constant as possible. If you had an appointment in another state, they would schedule you their time, not yours. Some businesses, who are close to a timezone difference, will always report their time with the timezone.. "See you at 1PM Eastern Time, Mr. Duplexety".
[This might help you]( URL_0 ). **Explanation** We're not entirely sure, but it seems to be that humans assume people are staring at them even when only presented with partial evidence. This was tested in an experiment by the University of Sydney, which noted that when not given sufficient cues, the subject would still almost always assume they were being watched. **TL;DR** There's no accepted theory, chance? We absolutely can not feel this, we can sense it though; most people today are poorly tuned at doing it. As a rancher for many years I can tell you exactly when I'm being watched and stalked, I verify it regularly with my flashlight to noobies who think I'm trying to scare them. I will light up the area and find a set of eyes looking in our direction. I do not believe it's a mind's eye thing, it must be related to my peripheral vision picking up two orbs distanced far enough apart to simulate an animal. I know this because if a deer or dog is walking parallel to me I will not "sense" it, I can only see one eye. I have also been walked up on from behind while working and only made aware of my stalker by audible means (extreme noise or extreme silence). I should actually do a study for this on YouTube or something because I can prove it daily. I could even use sunglasses to illustrate how removing the shape of two orbs will stop you entirely getting this sense. You can however still observe someone and tell they are stalking you. You will not get the hair raiser feeling though, that is a response for your nerve endings firing up getting ready to fight. Something I have felt every time a big cat is stalking me. Really really hate mountain lions, the chaotic silence that accompanies their arrival is difficult to describe, very fun to be stalked and reminded that we are not truly the top of the food chain when we are alone. Your brain processes loads of information that you're not aware of. Indeed some theories of the mind posit that consciousness doesn't really exist and what we experience as consciousness is a post-facto reality. So it's possible the feeling is your brain tweaking into something before you are consciously aware of it. i.e. Your brain notices some eyes looking towards you before you are consciously aware of them and pulls your attention towards them. Or maybe it's confirmation bias? Maybe you frequently feel watched and sometimes when you look up you actually catch someone looking? I can't imagine how to design a scientific test for this supposed phenomenon. We can't, it's just our confirmation bias kicking in, we think we can sense this and sometimes it turns out someone is watching us and we remember those instances and the other times we sense someone is watching us and nobody is and we ignore those.Thus making us believe that we can sense people watching us. You can't. If they are close enough, you feel the breath they release changing the air around you. If they are far, it's just your peripheral and judgement at work. For a very long time in our development, being watched was tantamount to being hunted. We are predisposed to assume we are being watched (even when we aren't) because it's inexpensive and so much safer than the alternative. It is unconscious sight. It is very unintuitive but a significant amount of seeing is done completely unconsciously. There is a phenomenon called blindsight where people who lose the brain areas for visual sight can still do many things requiring vision, but deny being able to see anything. They think they can navigate and grab objects merely by chance or coincidence since the processing is done completely unconsciously. The gaze detection is merely unconscious processing of danger. I mean think about it. No one looks at their visual field and deduces consciously that they are being watched or are in danger. The danger or gaze feeling is already present in the perception. The evolutionary advantages of this type of detection should be obvious.
The definition of fruit and vegetable are rules with a couple exceptions. The definition that covers most fruits/vegetables is as follows: A fruit is the part of the plant that *develops from a flower*. It's also the section of the plant that contains the seeds. *The other parts of plants are considered vegetables*. These include the stems, leaves and roots — and even the flower bud. We call several (technically) fruits "vegetable," but the main point here is that your premise is wrong - ***both fruits and vegetables have seeds***. [More reading]( URL_0 )
LFTR is a generation 4 molten salt type breeer reactor where the nuclear fuel and coolant are all melted together. It doesn't need large containments or high pressure reactor vessels. But it does have huge corrosion problems that still aren't solved yet and needs a specialized reprocessing system which also isn't designed yet. Generation 4 reactors are passively safe in a total loss of power scenario. All generation 4 reactors (except high temperature gas reactors) are at least 10 years out from being submitted for approval by the us nuclear regulatory commission based on a report to us congress on advanced reactor designs. So a LFTR design will be 10 years before it could even be submitted for design certification based on what the designers have told the government. Plus there still are very few regulations for allowing the licensing of a non water reactor design in most countries. They are very different. Thorium is a very different metal than uranium, and the whole nuclear fuel cycle is very different. They are safer, but there is less experience with them. When a company is looking at risk assessment, "new" is a very bad thing. Secondly, regulators and politicians aren't interested in "more safe". They want nuclear to be "completely safe", which even coal isn't, because of unfounded public concerns.
What's generally referred to as a feeling of "impending doom" is a feeling of certainty that something terrible is going to happen to you or you're going to die, or that something is just off or wrong about your body. People with the "impending doom" symptom are convinced that they're dying or will soon die, so it's sort of a "can't bear the suspense" type of feeling. It usually happens because of a problem in the sympathetic nervous system. That's what controls your heart and lungs without you having to think about contracting those muscles. Under normal circumstances, our brain ignores the sensation of our lungs expanding or our heart beating, because that would get really distracting. So if something is wrong with the sympathetic nervous system, like an irregular heartbeat from a heart attack, you're probably not going to physically feel that your heartbeat is all out of sync. But you WILL know something is just... "off" about your body, even if you can't pin down what. Your sympathetic nervous system is sending SOMETHING IS WRONG signals to your brain, and since your brain is wired not to send you physical sensations from those nerves, it just sends you a general "wrongness" vibe instead.
Gravity attracts heavier objects with more force than lighter objects. For example, if you drop a hammer in water, you will see the cheek sinking first, followed by the handle. That is because the cheek is made of steel and is more dense, therefore, heavier, than the handle, which is made of wood. The same thing is happening to helium balloons, but in reverse. They rise, but the heavier part of the balloon will always be closer to earth, due to gravity. Balloons are designed to be this way, in order to float orderly without entangling. In case you have cheap balloons that need to be knotted at the end, the knot is heavier than the bulk of the balloon. This is because the bulk of the balloon is stretched by the gas inside it, and therefore the rubber is less dense than the knot, which is not stretched. TLDR: think of the balloon as a piece of buttered toast. The butter is the knot and is heavier than the rest of the balloon. The heavy part is always at the bottom.
Every theorem has a proof, an answer to the question of "why is that true?". For axioms, the "why?" is a non-provable value statement. It's true because we want it to be true, rather than due to any particular proof. In general, axioms will be so simple and fundamental that they are clearly never going to be discovered to be proven false entirely, as a blanket, but the concern is that when you claim that an axiom is true for all ___, you risk there being a REALLY obscure ___ which when the axiom is applied, proves a contradiction. If you can prove a contradiction, you can prove anything (proof of A: suppose not A - {contradiction} - therefore, A) - so when selecting our list of axioms, we seek ones that are so carefully constructed as to not permit the proving of any contradictions. Mathematics is based off of the axioms of ZFC. These are a minimal set of axioms which for over a hundred years have been scrutinized by mathematicians - and maybe there is a way to use them to prove a contradiction, but nobody's found one, and a whole lotta people have been looking, so they make for some pretty solid ground. Before that, we had naive set theory which said that for every assertion about a thing, there exists a set of things for which that assertion is true. It seems simple enough compared to ZFC, but it's just not good enough because it permits proof of contradictions. See [Russell's Paradox]( URL_0 ).
Many prolific artists have hundreds and hundreds of songs personally written already. Understand, the vast majority of them are mediocre at best. But somewhere in there, there is a gold nugget or two. Another, and more than likely plausible reason is they have help. Lots and lots of it. There are many hundreds of people that write and sell most of the radio music you here today to the stars that perform therm. Whether it's Taupin for Elton John, or Pink for some guy, or many unknown genius songwriters that just don't have the looks, or age to be superstars. Beyoncé does not write all of the songs. Taylor Swift, nah. Lady Gaga, she did a lot of her own stuff.
For one thing, it is pretty big. If there was a gold rush in South Dakota followed by a mass migration to Minnesota, we wouldn't be talking about one place being a magnet. But mostly it is a lot of little things: * the weather is nice * it is on the coast * lots of natural resources * good agricultural land * the Spanish left some good infrastructure * adequate water is many places, most of the time * lots of open space and room to grow In addition to all of that, it is *new*, and has embraced a culture of newness. Things on the East Coast can be very traditional, and while that has its benefits, it can also be an impediment to innovation. People come to California so they can be free to do things that have never been done before. Because people always move to coastal areas. Land-locked regions (AKA flyover states) have a much harder time importing and exporting goods. Coastal regions have ports and become natural centers for commerce and industry. Anyone immigrating to America from Pacific is likely to arrive in California and just settle there, unless they have a compelling reason to continue travelling. The fact that it was the site of a gold rush is pretty much the icing on the cake. California was settled by the Spanish loooong before any white man entered the continent's interior, merely because California was accessible by sea. Also, keep in mind that California takes up most of the West Coast. If you look at the East Coast, it is divided into dozens of small states based on the locations of early colonies. But there are only three states on the West Coast, and California takes up the most coastline and has the best climate. Therefore, it was always destined to be a major population center. TLDR; 95% geography, 5% marketing.
They are very different. Normal fatigue from working out is caused by lactic acid, a compound produced by your muscles when they run out of oxygen. Lactic acid is a byproduct of breaking down carbohydrates for energy that has the unfortunate side effect of making your muscles feel sore, but it doesn't physically damage them. A muscle strain or pull is when your muscle tissue is torn. This means the fibers have to regenerate and repair.
Water doesn't expire. It's the bottle that expires, because the plastic that makes up the bottle breaks down. Laws in countries ask that every single food and drink item have an expiration date. It's a formality that needs to be followed. Water doesn't really expire. Some guys wrote about bottles too, and yea that's a factor too, but not a major one unless you're talking about storing a sealed bottle for years.
It's not your brain that hurts during a headache; it's the nerves and stuff around your head/scalp/skull that have pain receptors. "A headache or cephalalgia is pain anywhere in the region of the head or neck. ... The brain tissue itself is not sensitive to pain because it lacks pain receptors. Rather, the pain is caused by disturbance of the pain-sensitive structures around the brain." Essentially the meninges or protective tissues surrounding the brain become inflamed and this is where the pain comes from. When someone catches meningitis for example this is the area that is being affected by the disease. It causes swelling and other complications and ultimately if not treated, death. Thanks google
They don't. Most people with Tourette Syndrome do not have swear words as a tick. Only 10% do. Throat scraping is the most common audible tick, I believe. Other ones can include repeating other people's words or repeating your own words. And, of course, a whole host of motor ticks. Movies and shows are not actually very good at portraying most disorders. Don't get your medical information from them. It is a common misconception that all swear. Often it's random noises, sometimes quite subtle. They don't. It's a misconception, and quite a few people get annoyed by it. Most tics(and most people with tics don't have tourette's) are very simple. I personally have one related to blinking, one that's a very quiet throat clearing sound, and one related to raising my eyebrows but these are my experience only and not to represent anybody else. That being said they could be a huge variety of things, and some of them are more frequent and harder to do than others. It's very possible that having a tic results in some of the worse off people swearing more because it pisses them off, but its extremely rare for someone to swear as a direct result of a tic.
Because everybody hates change. Week 1-4 of a UI overhaul, everyone hates it. It's all different and you have to find the stuff you want again. Once you figure it out you stop caring and usually whatever new/optimized feature gets a jump in usage, which is why they made a new UI in the first place.
Well, generally speaking people associate a face with a voice over time. I can recognize my friends voices without even seeing them. It's a learned thing. Just like with the electronic stuff. It's learned. The speaker picks up on your voice by asking you to say a sentence or 5, with the knowledge of what the preset sentences are, the device associates the vibrations the speaker picks up with the words you're saying, and learns the way you speak because of the sentences it's asked you to read to it. Or something like that. Idk man. I just write shit down and hope for the best. Sound travels in waves. When the sound waves hit the microphone, the computer converts the sound into a digital signal (i.e. a set of 1s and 0s). This is done through sampling, where the computer takes the sound at small intervals and records it (a bit like a pixel in a scanned image), the more samples the better the sound quality. This gives you a digital representation of the spoken voice. Now, there are two things we can do with this - either identity verification, or text-to-speech conversion. In the case of recognising a person speaking a password, the computer is 'trained' with a previously recorded sample, and compares the set of 1s and 0s from the training example with the one it just received. If the match is close enough then bingo! This is relatively simple, as you are trying to find something that is as close as possible, so flexibility isn't a big factor. Text-to-speech is more tricky, because you have to allow for the different intonations of people's voices, so the data won't be identical. Thus, the computer will try to isolate phonemes, percussive sounds that help us distinguish one word from another (like b, p, t, d sounds). If it can divide the signal according to these phonemes, then the phonemes can be compared to known examples it has been trained with. The computer will then use probability to follow the sequence of sounds and try to identify the words that they make up. This may be done through the use of something like a Markov chain - which is a way of modelling probability in a computer by looking at a sequence of events and the probability of each event occurring. By looking at the sequence of phonemes, the computer can identify the most probable correct interpretation. If the computer finds a sequence of phonemes that correspond to a known word it will then display that word. Good systems will also consider the other possible words in a similar manner to predictive text - so if it is unsure which word is the correct choice, the surrounding words may give a good clue. These contextual clues are discovered by training the system according to some machine learning techniques - i.e. you provide a ton of sample data and the computer can find patterns and connections between words (this is more effective than teaching grammar rules, which are frequently broken). Tl;dr the computer converts the voice to digital data. It breaks the signal down into sounds and uses probability to guess the words that the sequence of sounds are most likely to make. The computer is trained using sample sound and text data to help improve its guesses through probability values.
there is a gaping hole. Just had one out myself. Takes a long time to heal over and you need to take care not to have the blood clot come loose or you'll get dry-socket. it's exposed bone with a blood clot. Eventually will heal over and be just the ridge you're describing. Months of time need to pass.
LCD screens use a chemical "shutter" effect to do their thing. When a current is run through them, the material crystalizes. When the electricity is turned back off, it returns to it's uncrystalley form. In low temperatures, the material gets slower and "goopier" similar t a lot of substances that act thicker in low temperatures.
To clearly mark the boundaries of the roundabout. Imagine if it's dark, or you're impaired, and all you see in front of you is flat open space. One might be tempted to cross straight through a roundabout as if it were a normal 4-way intersection, endangering any vehicles likewise inside the roundabout. Plus, your attention should be focused immediately to your left (or right if you're in the UK) as that's the flow of traffic you'll be entering. You shouldn't be concerned with who is directly opposite you in an roundabout because you won't encounter their vehicle while merging into the intersection (unless they blow straight through like a 4-way intersection [which might happen if the middle is flat and unmarked]) It's to make you slow you down so you CAN'T see, if you think you CAN see you'll hit the roundabout full tilt like the other car who thinks they CAN see. Similar traffic calming measures are used at corners to make you STOP, look then go. Where I live in America, all of our roundabouts are flat concrete slabs. They are as light colored as sidewalks so you aren't going to miss it unless you cant even see sidewalks. They were also all made within the past few years, so there isn't any precedent for foliage roundabouts. It's actually because it obscures the view of oncoming traffic on the other side, you are more likely to move onto a roundabout if you can't see traffic joining on the other side. The efficiency of roundabouts relies on the fact that there should always be two vehicles on it at the same time. Also something you can look out for very small roundabouts "the pointless ones" are usually flat, while medium roundabouts are built like skyscrapers and then the huge ones are flat because the closest junction is usually miles away, not literally. The best example I can give you is the magic roundabout in Swindon, that s**t is just scary (Close your eyes and hope and pray for the best)
Because they can point to decades of statistics that a 17 year old male is extremely likely to be a doofus and wreck his car. I'm not sure there's any reason they can't charge you more for being black, too, if there's genuine statistical evidence that you are thus more likely to get in a crash. The whole idea of insurance only works because of correct assessment of risk. They don't charge because they're male (i.e. just the gender), they charge more for a variety of reasons based solely on statistics. - males are more likely to drive stupidly/recklessly/cause accidents - young people (young _males_ especially) are more likely to be in accidents - males are more likely to buy faster, more expensive cars; which get in more accidents - aaaand cost more to fix than that Hyundai hatchback. As you get older and maintain a safe driving record, your insurance will decrease. But as a young male, 16-25, this is the worst demographic for auto insurance. Because young dudes get in more accidents because they're _stooopid drivers_. source: was young dude who drove stoopid and paid a fuck-ton for car insurance. Interestingly, in the EU, males and females have to pay the same. "Equality", so women now pay more. When we say discrimination, we usually mean *unfair discrimination*, which is usually illegal. *Fair discrimination*, however, is legal. If I am selling extra strong sunscreen, I don't have to put out a casting call that includes people with dark skin. Age and gender discrimination in insurance is considered fair, as there is are demonstrable links between those qualities and likelihood to be in an accident. If there was similar evidence for race, that too would likely be legal, if wildly unpopular. Also, because fair discrimination can include things like income, credit rating, education, and in particular, where you live, black people as a group often do wind up paying more. They use any piece of data that they are legally allowed to, in an effort to gauge how risky a driver you might be, and charge you accordingly. If they could legally use race, religion, and sexual orientation to get a better determination, they'd do that to, but the Government has made that illegal. However, they have not made assessments based on Gender illegal. Why is your personal opinion, but probably because males are charged more. If females were riskier, and subsequently charged more, I believe the Government would ban it like they do with health insurance.
The law of scarcity. The more expensive something is to produce (rare or limited quantities due to cost), the more valuable it is to us when we don't have it. URL_0
The antibiotic doesn't change the bacteria to be resistant, but it creates selective pressure for resistant strains. In the absence of antibiotics, the resistance mutations would still arise but, as a very rare mutation conferring no survival advantage, they would persist in the population only at a very low level and likely die out by chance. When the resistant strains are the only ones that can survive, however, they come to dominate the population. When someone else who hasn't taken antibiotics yet catches the bug from you, they will catch the resistant strain and nothing else. From there on in the spread of that particular strain, it is 100% resistant. We say the resistance mutation has become "fixed" in the population - this would not happen without the selective pressure from the antibiotics. Everything competes for food, including bacteria. So basically the antibiotics kill off the competition, allowing the resistant strains to multiply much more and become the predominant strains. You're almost there! After the rest of the bacteria have been killed it's only the resistant ones left. When these ones reproduce they are significantly more likely to pass o the resistance. If this keeps on happening it the proportion of resistant bacteria builds to the point of become an issue.
since we don't have anywhere near enough knowledge of how the human brain works to be able to make a computer emulate one, the correct answer is: No one has a clue. We don't know, but using the deep thinking massive data processing is coming online to simulate a human mind to where, in just a few more years, we'll have computers like Alexa and Google Home that you won't be able to tell if you are talking to a human or not. Or maybe you will, but it won't matter as the device will have it's own place in your life, maybe we won't need it to be indistinguishable from a human. It could be, that we'll see these artificial minds as a really good friend. Just think of a friend who is always there for you, can answer any question rationally and without any type of malice or dishonesty. We already like being on the web more than just about any other activity, I think we'll have new best friends soon. Some rough estimations and fun background. [The human brain has been estimated to have a processing power or roughly **38 petaflops and a memory of at least 3.6 petabytes**]( URL_0 ). That's a lot. Our top supercomputer, the Chinese [**Sunway TaihuLight**]( URL_1 ) has a processing power of about 93 petaflops, though it lacks a little memory sitting at 1.31 petabytes. It was just built too (June 2016). It cost over $270 million. The previous top supercomputer - also Chinese, [Tianhe-2]( URL_2 ) only had about 34 petaflops. To give you some contrast, currently the top i7 processor only has about 120 gigaflops (peta = giga * million). The GTX Titan X has about 11 teraflops (tera = giga* thousand). **Can the Sunway TaihuLight emulate the human brain?** *Not really*. Emulation usually requires the emulator to have processing power orders of magnitude larger than the emulated hardware. As a rough example - look at game console emulators (a bit of an ancient example but eh), they require PCs at least 5-6 years youger than the consoles they're emulating. **How much processing power is actually needed to emulate the human brain?** *We likely won't know until we try.* We definitely won't know until we actually fully understand how the brain works. However, I would call it a safe bet to assume that it will take orders of magnitude more than 38 petaflops. Likely X or XX exaflops. My personal, completely biased and unburdened with research or evidence opinion is that by the time we get together to actually write the software, the hardware won't be a problem. What is amazing is that the human brain is only powered by about 12 watts of electricity. About as much as a cfl light bulb. Deep blue, a super computer took 30 or so minutes to simulate 1 second of average human brain activity.
The heart is made of a special type of muscle tissue (cardiac muscle; the other two are skeletal or voluntary muscle, and smooth or involuntary muscle). Cardiac muscle cells have more mitochondria than other muscle cells, and mitochondria produce power for the muscles. The cardiac muscles are joined together in a way that lets them contract hard without tearing apart. So long as the heart is getting oxygen (a heart attack is when the heart stops getting oxygen), it's not going to get tired - it won't build up lactic acid, because it's being supplied with plenty of fuel, and it won't be damaged because it's not straining itself. Generally speaking, anyway - extreme stress (from being very obese, or from regularly straining your body with extreme exercise) can cause temporary or permanent wear to your heart. The heart does get tired, it can just function for a lot longer than other muscles before it wears out (props to tlndfors for pointing out that this is because cardiac muscle cells have more mitochondria and therefore more power and endurance). When we say a person dies of old age, what we mean is that they lived long enough for their heart to finally get tired and stop working.
Many computers do momentarily power off when restarting. However the capacitors on the motherboard have not been lacking power for long enough to completely discharge their power and so can still hold some things in memory. Sort of like when you unplug a power adapter from the wall but the little light on the brick stays lit for a few seconds. Those capacitors store power much like batteries do. That's why sometimes a restart won't fix a problem where a full power off and power on will.
Your eye has photoreceptive cells that respond to certain wavelengths of electromagnetic radiation striking them. This occurs because those photons are absorbed by proteins in the cell, which trigger a change, that generates a signal sent to the brain. Those cells do not absorb other wavelengths, including those of infrared light. Because that light does not get absorbed, it does not trigger the change which generates the signal. No signal is sent to the brain, and so the brain does not know to generate any image. Additionally, the eye is not equally transparent to all wavelengths of light. For instance, near UV light might be visible, but your eye is opaque to it, so those photons would not reach your cells regardless. /u/stuthulhu mentions good points about our light sensitive cells not responding to infrared light. One of the main reasons they never evolved to respond is that not much infrared light manages go through our eyes. The vitreous humor, the clear liquid that makes up the inside of our eye is mostly made of water. Water highly absorbs infrared light. Most of the infrared light is absorbed by the ~1 inch of vitreous humor so not much remains to be detected when it hits the light sensitive cells lined on the back of our eye.
I think the question you're trying to ask is why professional movie cameras are much larger compared to a professional still camera (for example a DSLR)? A few factors: - Image sensor/film size. A larger sensor or film format will require a larger unit and a larger set of lenses. Note that both still and video cameras come in a variety of sensor/film sizes. You can get a professional still camera that's bigger than a professional video camera. It all depends on the application. - Flexibility. A movie camera lens typically needs a wider zoom range than a still camera, particularly still professionals using primes (non-zoom) lenses. This means bigger, heavier lenses. - Ergonomics. A movie camera needs a greater degree of smooth control over the camera so you can do smooth zooms, smooth pans, smooth tilts etc so there's additional control and mounting hardware. - Movie cameras tend to have a viewing screen as opposed to a small optical viewfinder. - Storage requirements are higher for movie cameras.
When you “crack” your knuckles, or any other joint, it expands the space between your bones, creating negative pressure that draws synovial fluid into the new gap. This influx of synovial fluid is what causes the popping sound and feeling when you crack a knuckle
Because it's cheap (in that they don't have to maintain this data themselves) and easy (because Facebook and Google made it so), and it means they might get some additional information about you. Facebook and Google, on the other hand, *definitely* get more information about you by letting other sites authenticate through them. It is worth pointing out that there *was* an attempt to make an *open* version of something like this *years* ago, but it never caught on because it was a pain to implement, and nobody was making money off it so nobody really pushed it very hard. For the same reason we use banks to handle our money transfers. Getting security right is very difficult and the needs change constantly. What is secure yesterday might be a major vulnerability tomorrow. It's just so much easier to let some giant company that needs to get it right take care of that for me.
I know exactly what you are talking about! Some people in past posts say its your brain entering [Default Network Mode]( URL_0 ), yes its actually called that. But if we are talking about the same thing, its almost like a trance, where you are staring and your mind is fully operational, but it just feels good to be fixated, and you are aware if you look away, that fleeting feeling will pass. These moments often come when I haven't spoken in awhile, too, if that is any constellation. Im no scientist but from what i know your body releases dopamine and activates natural opioid receptors in your brain when you "zone out". I have a l w a y s questioned why it felt "good" to stare at nothing. So glad I found this.
Autopsies can be very lengthy and detailed operations. Even a case which seems cut-and-dry may have additional facets. For example, someone was found washed up on the shore, but was their death by drowning? The lungs may be examined to see if water was inhaled, the brain to look for other signs of trauma, and the blood taken to see if drugs or poisons were present. It is a very "hands-on" practice, and a lot isn't fit for TV. A coroner or pathologist can do things a surgeon can't in terms of opening up the body and removing organs to be individually examined. Bodies which have been dead for some time may be decomposing and rotting: it looks much better on TV to show a computer screen with some vague "scans."
There is the 500/600 rule. Basically take 600 (500 to be safe) and divide it by your lens' focal length, that will tell you how many seconds you can expose for without getting star trails (where you see the stars move). Now, that is for full frame (35mm) sensors, I believe Nikon sensors have a 1.5x crop radio, so it should be: 500 / (1.5 * focal length) = seconds If you are just posting to Facebook or Imgur, 600 should be good, but if doing prints, go with 500.
Long story short, bandwidth gets you fast downloads, low latency gets you fast gaming, and packet loss hurts both. Bandwidth is a limit of the network capacity, and data caps placed on your account by your network provider so that you get the speed you paid for but no more. Latency is a matter of the switching performance of the switches and routers, the number of network hops the packet makes, and the distance between your computer and the other end of the connection. And packet loss hurts both latency (due to re transmitted packets) and bandwidth and is mostly a result of un optimized network routing and equipment defects. Details: So there are several different types of data and each has different sensitivities to network issues. For instance downloading a file is asynchronous and it is okay for parts of it to arrive out of order or for there to be a lot of latency in the communication because it's the size of the packets, and the number of them that make it through without being discarded that affects how quickly a download can work. Contrast that with a skype call which doesn't use a lot of bandwidth, but the data that is sent, is time critical. If the packets arrive out of order it doesn't do you any good because by the time the system re-assembles them you've already moved on to the next sentence. We perceive these problems as jitter and sound dropping out or becoming noisy. So latency is somewhat important, not dropping packets is very important, and bandwidth is less important. Then you have gaming, where you and all of the people playing as well as the server all have to exchange packets quickly so that each user is updated on what the other users did for each slice of time, and the server calculates all of these, and then sends the results out to each client. For instance you shoot an enemy at the same time they shoot you, whichever packet makes it to the server first, that player gets the kill and the other doesn't. Then the server sends the results. So you might see you fire first, but if the server doesn't, then it doesn't matter. So the latency, or round trip time it takes a packet to be sent and responded to, is the most important. So what effects latency, bandwidth, and packet loss? Latency is affected mostly by how far away you are from the server, and how many hops the packet has to make along the way. Packets are switched and routed, and each time they hit a switch or router, they have to be copied and re-transmitted and this causes a slight delay in the round trip time. This is less about the amount of bandwidth, and more about the switching speed and performance of the switches and routers. Bandwidth is affected mostly by network traffic, and throttling such as paying for 500mbps internet, the cable company caps your bandwidth at this limit. Also if neighbors are downloading a lot of stuff and the cable network gets overloaded, it can slow down your speed for a bit. Packet loss and arriving out of order, is mostly a matter of provisioning the networking equipment to use the best route, not to exceed the packet size, your computer not using a packet size too large so it's not fragmented, and the quality of the connections between the different hops on the way to the other side of the connection. Line noise, thunder storms, corroded wires, radio interference, over worked equipment, and of course [the fiber seeking backhoe]( URL_0 ). All of these lead to packets being lost or corrupted. Also certain transfer protocols like UDP do NOT re transmit packets. If a packet is lost, it's lost. Ping is the time it takes a signal to go from your location, to the destination and back. For example, a "ping" to a spaceship on Mars would take several minutes because electronic signals cannot travel faster than the speed of light. Similarly, while the distance between the United States and China is negligible for the speed of light, it still requires time and is not instant. Additionally, at every node/server, there may be some computation or process to occur that redirects your signal to the proper location (which also may take time). Download speed is the amount of information you can download from another. For example, downloading a game/music to your harddrive. Upload speed is the amount of information you can transfer to another. Have a high upload speed means you can upload a video to youtube much quicker. For the purposes of COD, download speed is the most important item but once it is over a certain threshold, your hardware, and the server's hardware will limit you.
> ...pick them up on a satellite... Satellites don't have any special abilities to "sense" where people are. Most satellites aren't cameras, those that *are* cameras are in use by spying agencies and they cost a trillion dollars. If those lost people were floating around the Indian Ocean spotting them with a spy satellite would be like spotting a tick on a dog from a mile away. Compounding that, the ocean is full of floating garbage. Miles and miles of it. Its not a matter of technology, but scale. Oceans are huge, and most GPS technology only *accepts* information from satellites; it doesn't talk back or relay any information back to the satellites, so no one sees or hears anything. Also, did I mention that they oceans are huge? Oceans are huge, that's basically the answer. A major aspect though is that acquiring temporary use of a satellite costs millions of dollars, something that's not viable for search and rescue. So, helicopters can be sent out to look, but again, the ocean is huge. If the people lost at see bought an [expensive satellite phone]( URL_0 ), they could call someone and give them their location (cell phones would still have a GPS signal). Sci-fi TV/movies paint a pretty amazing picture, lol - they just dial up a satellite, cut to the shot of it spinning into position (cue low rumble), snap a couple pictures, enhance, and oh look! Facial recognition says that's our bad guy :) Most satellite imagery that you see on the news or Google Maps is captured from Low Earth Orbit (LEO) and therefore has a pretty narrow field of view, 8-12 miles wide in the case of the [WorldView]( URL_2 ) satellites. The resolution is 1 pixel per 18inches at best, so detecting a face is out of the question, maybe a body, a boat is reasonable. Imagine trying to find a single flea (and that's ridiculously large as compared to a human, heck even a boat, in a 100sq-miles of ocean) on a carpet square 45ft x 45ft, taking pictures 1-inch by 1-inch, and you can only take a 1-inch wide row of pictures every 90min (on average the time of one orbit around the earth at ~380miles up). It would take you over a month to photograph the whole thing. Let's hope the flea (or the boat) didn't move. Now somebody's going to nitpick my numbers, but I fudged a lot...point being, it's just not practical to visually scan an ocean from so close, and the ones that are sitting at Geosynchronous Earth Orbit (GEO, 22000 miles up) don't have that kind of resolution - they're meant to look for hurricanes, etc. However, [NOAA]( URL_1 ) has been operating the [Search and Rescue Satellite Aided Tracking (SARSAT) System]( URL_0 ) and it has rescued almost 4000 people since 2001, but that only works if the vessel or person is carrying an emergency transponder.
It sounds like you are talking about a temporal artery thermometer. When you take your temperature, do you swipe it across your forehead from around center to around your eye level? If so, that's it, and it is intended to be for your forehead only. It is measuring the temperature of a particular artery that runs through your forehead. Cool infrared technology! URL_0 Now, you have other arteries running through your head, but I don't know if they are close enough to the surface or too deep to get a reading. Maybe someone else can address that. In short, no it can't be anywhere on your head as that thermometer needs to detect an artery at a certain depth. However, there are other specific areas of your head that might work.
The use of a 24 hour clock relates back to the Ancient Egyptians (and relates to why there are 60 minutes in an hour). Thanks to documented evidence of the Egyptians' use of sundials, most historians credit them with being the first civilization to divide the day into smaller parts. The first sundials were simply stakes placed in the ground that indicated time by the length and direction of the resulting shadow. As early as 1500 B.C., the Egyptians had developed a more advanced sundial. A T-shaped bar placed in the ground, this instrument was calibrated to divide the interval between sunrise and sunset into 12 parts. This division reflected Egypt's use of the duodecimal system--the importance of the number 12 is typically attributed either to the fact that it equals the number of lunar cycles in a year or the number of finger joints on each hand (three in each of the four fingers, excluding the thumb), making it possible to count to 12 with the thumb. The next-generation sundial likely formed the first representation of what we now call the hour. Although the hours within a given day were approximately equal, their lengths varied during the year, with summer hours being much longer than winter hours. Officially, it was at the International Meridian Conference (October 1884, Washington DC) that Lewis M. Rutherfurd proposed: "That this universal day is to be a mean solar day; is to begin for all the world at the moment of mean midnight of the initial meridian, coinciding with the beginning of the civil day and date of that meridian; and is to be counted from zero up to twenty-four hours." The conference adopted the resolution and that's why we have a 24 hour clock. But the issue of why we have 60 minutes in an hour has a foggier answer. Although it is unknown why 60 was chosen, it is notably convenient for expressing fractions, since 60 is the smallest number divisible by the first six counting numbers as well as by 10, 12, 15, 20 and 30. So that is why our system of time consists of 24 hours, each of which are made up of 60 minutes. (EDIT: Citations) Scientific American Wiki Article
Chemo drugs are actually just poison. It inhibits cell reproduction so it kills cells that are reproducing. The hope is that because cancer is just a set of rapidly reproducing cells, it will kill the cancer faster than the rest of your body. This is also why people going through chemo tend to lose there hair. Hair cells reproduce extremely fast just by nature. Simple way. It poisons your cells putting you pretty much to the brink of death hoping it kills the cancer cells To add to what /u/straight-faced_solo has already said, there are also other types of chemo therapy treatments that work in other ways. One example of this would be IL-2. IL-2 or interleukin 2 is usually used when a more aggressive treatment is recommended, and it works by activating an immune response in the body. IL-2 is a cytokine (chemical secreted by the immune system to affect other cells) that stimulates and activates T cells (like a white blood cell). These T cells can then either create B cells which help create antibodies or they can directly hunt down anything the body decides shouldn't be there. This still kills plenty of cells that don't need to be killed though. If you would like a more in depth explanation let me know and I can go further into how each of these steps takes place. Source: took immunology in university and spent plenty of time in an oncology infusion center. edit: to clarify, this is technically called immunotherapy, but has similar effects on the body as chemo therapy. There is a difference though.
You're more worried about what could go wrong than what can go right. Same reason you fail to notice something in the background of no importance but your brain instantly alerts you of a perceived threat in your periphery (like noticing a giant spider in the corner of a room). Your brain alerts you more of the things that can affect you negatively and focuses on them more than positive things to keep you safe. Well, unfortunately there are a lot of false positive reviews. And sometimes lots of reviews that have 'this product was received free or at a discount for my review.' They can really flood Amazon and make crap seem great. Nobody fakes negative reviews of their own product. I did just come across a web page that does a quick analysis of the reviews to look for 'suspicious reviews.' Neat! Personally, I read negative reviews to get a sense of what people are complaining about. Someone will always find something to complain about for any given thing, but what I want to know is how reasonable those complaints are. My wife and I use Yelp to look up restaurants, but what we're mostly looking for are the bad reviews and what the nature of those reviews are. When we see a that a lot of the bad reviews are petty, or have unreasonable complaints ("We came in looking for a table for ten at 8:00 on a Saturday and they made us wait 30 minutes!!!") or are ridiculously over-the-top ("We sat down and waited for 45 minutes until a waiter came, then waited for 45 more minutes to get our drinks, then it took an hour and a half to get our appetizers..."), then we give them less weight and generally feel better about our decision to go to the restaurant. Because if you are spending your hard earned money on something you want it to be consistently good and not take a risk. The reason you take more notice of bad reviews is because you are conditioned by thousands of years of evolution to look for them. Yes, ancient cave-men passed along the skills you need to spot a bad Amazon review. They drew warnings on cave walls of bad products with one star and passed those skills down from generation to generation. Ok I totally made that up, but what they did pass along to you was the instinctive nature to spot danger, and a bad review is exactly that, it's a big DANGER sign that you immediately take notice of. It doesn't matter than ten other people said nice things about it, you want to know what the danger flag (Or bad review) is all about because if there's even the tiniest hint of a threat to you (In this case wasting your money on a bad product), well you want in on that!! It's the same reason we don't generally have warning signs that indicate an absence or lack of danger. The sudden prompting that things have gone to shit spikes that same instinctive watch for danger in you. Because of this effect, people who sell stuff hate one star reviews for the simple fact they have a massive weight of influence to them. No matter how retarded a bad review might be, it always has more effect than a well written one that reflects positively on the product which is why most shopping and review sites let the manufacturer have the last word on a bad review as a means of restoring the balance. It's not always possible, but the best way to measure a review is to play other reviews off against it. If a good review says something nice about the product, go and find a bad review that refutes that specific point and vice versa. For example if a bad review says "The battery life is crap" and there's three other reviews saying its not bad or its good, the balance of probability says that one reviewer had unrealistic expectations of battery life or some other problem.
It is possible to significantly compress video, but it takes a lot of computing power, too much for your phone to do it on the fly. You could take your video, run it through a conversion and compression process for an hour or so, and wind up with something much smaller that looks pretty much the same. Video compression has some characteristics which affect how it is saved: * It can aim for *more effective* compression to create small files, which takes longer at the "create" step, so that it can easily decompress it during the "playback" stage; * It can aim for *fast* compression, which cannot make files as small but it can compress at faster speeds, which is a step up from storing the huge raw data of a video file. So, when you're camera is trying to save your video while you're filming it, the camera is taking option 2: it does not have enough time to compress the video file well and still have high quality video. The camera has to save each frame at the framerate speed, because in 1/30th of a second there will be another frame to compress, so it can't waste time making higher-compressed data. The videos you download from the internet were created on server who doesn't care how long it takes to compress a file -- it starts with a lesser-compressed video format, and if it takes five hours to compress that one hour movie down to the tiniest file it can possibly get, it has plenty of time to do so. This is to optimize the file for downloading, so the tradeoff of saving bandwidth is slower compression time. Also , different codecs are optimized for those two different options; the codec your phone is using is optimized for fastness, but the video you downloaded was optimized for smallness. If you were to use a program like Handbrake and convert your phone video to a smaller-file optimized codec, it probably would run for 10x as long as the video takes to play, but it will be a much, much smaller file. The short answer is because it's harder to compress than it is to decompress. Ever unboxed an inflatable bed or innertube that came in an impossibly small box? Taking it out and inflating it is easy. Deflating it and squeezing it back into the original box is harder. Video works the same way. Compressing video is done by looking for patterns in the video. Every single frame is compared to frames before and after it to look for similar elements. The resulting video file is made smaller by describing only the *differences* between frames. Decoding is relatively easy. To play a video, your computer just has to read the video format which says something like: to draw frame 757, take frame 756, but then add this rectangle from frame 755 and move it up 3 pixels, and then change these pixels to these different colors. It's very fast and straightforward to decode. Encoding a video well is hard. For every frame you have to search all over dozens of previous and subsequent frames for similarities and decide which ones are the best matches. With more effort you can compress the same video into much less space with very little loss in quality. So anyway, your phone isn't capable of compressing video very well. It can only compress a tiny bit. Later when you copy the video to your computer you can use the more powerful processor on your computer, and the benefit of more time to spare, to compress the video smaller. I assume you torrented it, as a 2hr movie on iTunes is about 5GB. Either way, an Arri Alexa or a RED normally shoots at > 100GB/min for 2K 24fps. The reason is a difference in the degree of compression, which is why Blu-ray looks better than YouTube. YouTube streams 30fps 1080p at around 3Mbps, while Bluray is usually ~24-32 Mbps. Video Compression is usually done by taking neighboring pixels of similar color and making them one color, thus removing a ton of data. [Apple's movie trailers are of higher quality than YouTube's, so I made a small comparison album]( URL_0 ). Also, did you film in 60fps? Because that's about 20Mbps, which is higher than normal for 30fps, most phones record at ~17.3Mbps. Not a big difference, but if you did record at 30fps, that's good as it preserved more data than ususal. If you did record at 60fps, most phones are at ~23Mbps, so yours is below average. **TLDR:** > while retaining the same quality. It doesn't.
I read your title twice and then once again just to make sure that you hadn't typed one of the the words twice as a trick! because because you stop to think about what to write next and repeat the last word by mistake. I do it all the time.
An LCD element is made so it is transparent unless you apply a voltage. When you apply a voltage to the element it is going black. It does not take much power to do this as you only need a voltage and no current. The electricity does not pass through the elements but still affects it. You can get window sized LCD elements that runs on tiny solar cells.
The [House Ethics Committee]( URL_0 ) still exists. It's made up of members of congress from both parties. If members of congress are accused of ethics violations, they will investigate, call witnesses, and hold votes on whether to censure or even expel members. If ethics violations are found, they usually make recommendations on how to "right" the conflict of interests and other ethical violations. At least that's what they are *supposed* to do. That will continue to exist. The [Office of Congressional Ethics]( URL_2 ) is an ostensibly non-partisan, unbiased, committee that is composed of private citizens that are neither members of congress or employees of the Federal government. Congress created it in 2008. This is what current House leadership is seeking to defund. The reason this second, independent ethics committee was originally created is because several prominent members of the Democratic Party, [specifically Charlie Rangel]( URL_1 ), had been accused of some rather serious ethics violations by the press. The House Ethics Committe (which along with the House and Senate, was controlled by Democrats at the time) didn't seem to take the allegations very seriously. Members of congress (mostly Republicans, but Democrats, too) were upset with the way the House and committee leadership were handling the ethics issues, and so they created this committee, specifically to penalize these members of congress and go around party leadership. Now that those members have been censured and the Republicans are in control of congress, many don't see a need for an independent committee anymore. That might change if any prominent Republicans are accused of ethics violations and the current committee leadership refuses to act.
Because copper is far less fragile than fiber, and is adequate for almost all applications. I mean, sure, you could have a fiber connection to a portable hard drive, but it won't be any faster than USB3 because the line speed is already greater than the disk speed. If I see how my relatives do treat the cables of their appliances, that question answers itself. Tying knots into optical fiber is not recommended, nor is mangling and twisting the cable beyond recognition, as people do all the damn time with their copper based cables.
Everyone here is wrong (except Mjolnir2000). Socialism doesn't mean state ownership. Communism doesn't mean totalitarianism where no one owns anything. Capitalism doesn't mean free-market economics. Socialism is when workers democratically own productive property. Capitalism is when productive property is owned privately and those owners hire workers to operate the property to make commodities for sale. Communism is a stateless, classless, moneyless, society. Socialism is the transitionary stage between capitalism and communism. Among socialists there are two basic divisions: democratic socialists and revolutionary socialists. There are also social democrats who are not socialists, but people mistakenly believe they are (such as Bernie Sanders). I like to explain it this way: If democratic Capitalism is an ongoing game of Monopoly, then, 1) Socialists propose that we play Hungry Hungry Hippos instead. 2) Democratic Socialists say we keep playing Monopoly for now, and gradually convince the other players to change the rules to resemble Hungry Hungry Hippos until we are effectively playing Hungry Hungry Hippos. 3) Revolutionary Socialists want to flip the table and force everyone to play Hungry Hungry Hippos immediately. 4) Social Democrats don't actually want to play Hungry Hungry Hippos, they just want to make some rule changes to Monopoly so it doesn't suck as much for players who are losing (like the popular free parking rule). Among pro-capitalist supporters (which leftists call liberals, an umbrella term that includes both American liberals, conservatives, libertarians, and social democrats), there are those who support free market economics and those who support state regulations and state-provided services such as public schooling and universal healthcare. The latter is NOT socialism. Both are forms of capitalism. Capitalism is not synonymous with free markets, it just means private ownership of property by some class of people. Scandinavian countries are capitalist. America is capitalist. India is capitalist. China is capitalist. Ethiopia is capitalist. All of the answers here already are wrong. Capitalism means you have private ownership of capital. The factory is owned by one person, say, and they can earn money off the factory simply as a result of said ownership - they have other people to do the actual work. Socialism means you have democratic ownership. The factory is jointly owned by the workers, and managers are elected. Alternatively, the factory is state owned, but the state is itself democratic. Socialism comes in many different varieties. Communism is a stateless, post-scarcity society in which things like money are no longer relevant because everyone's wants and needs can be trivially provided as a result of advances in the means of production. /u/HephaestusClangBang is using a tired spammed facebook meme. It's bullshit. /u/aloofball is spitting out misconceptions American liberals have. It's bullshit. /u/Fiveos2 is regurgitating Cold War propaganda. It's bullshit. /u/artificiallyselected never heard of anarchism and is also vomiting propaganda. It's bullshit. The only people here who actually gave a correct explanation were /u/Mjolnir2000 and /u/MemeMeUpFamilia. And I know they are correct because I am a socialist myself. So OP. Don't listen to those people, because they are wrong. Capitalism is private ownership of the means of production. Socialism is collective worker ownership of the means of production. Communism is the hypothesized next stage of society that is moneyless, classless, and stateless. Socialism is viewed as a stepping stone to communism itself. Anarchists are also socialists and they've existed before Marxist-Leninism was a thing (the ideology of the USSR and most socialist states in the 20th century). Don't let anyone fool you into believing that socialist == state ownership.
If you are in interstellar space like halfway between here and alpha Centauri, it would look pretty much like a normal clear moonless (and planet-less) night sky. Without the atmosphere getting in the way the sky view would be a lot clearer, but looking only with your eyes you might not notice that too much. The closest star may look a bit brighter than the rest, but that would be about it. Of course elsewhere in our galaxy it would look different, if you are in a location where stars a closer together, it would look much brighter and if you are in region where there are fewer stars it would look darker. Deep in intergalactic space, like halfway between here and Andromeda it would like be really, really dark. the only lights you could see would be distant galaxies and not much in the way of lone stars in the sky.
Regular pasta is *much* more popular, so it is produced by many more factories, so there is more competition. Competition keeps the price down. No experience with such pasta, but I live in a rice country. Brown rice, the less-processed kind, is less popular and are made only by premium brands which target the health-conscious customers, who are willing to pay more for the extra nutrition. There is less competition (supply) yes, but the buyers are willing to pay more (demand) too.
There are many different categories they can claim to be #1 for. Comedy, animation, art house, etc. They just don't mention how specific the category may be. There are a number of ways that it could be determined, and they'll pick any that fits their film including (but not limited to): highest dollar amount of ticket sales, number of tickets sold (kids movies and/or movies more popular in less urban areas where theaters are cheaper), ratings by critics and then narrow by genre (best comedy/action/drama/animated, etc), time frame (it's opening weekend? since it opened? just the past weekend?) First, because anyone can make the claim, there's no "official" body governing what the #1 movie is...I can claim that this is the best comment on the internet...anyone gonna stop me? Second, because you can apply any criteria you want for what #1 means...it's similar to the way every car and truck built by any company is the "best"..."Best in class towing capacity," "JD Power and Associates highest safety rating," "Best in class cargo space," "The best-selling car in America," "Most awarded car company in the last X years," etc...there's a category you can apply to basically anything that allows it to be the best.
You would write a program in another language to make it work. The two approaches are: * compiler - reads a file of the new language and changes it to machine code * interpreter - reads the file line by line and executes each command Many modern languages, like java, perl, and python take a hybrid approach to various degrees. At the lowest level, the CPU can understand machine code, which are very simple instructions. You could theoretically write this directly, but it's very tedious and difficult. Instead we have programming languages, and we have a program that will translate something written in a programming language, i.e. source code, into machine code. This is a compiler. When you have compiled source code, you'll have a binary file which you can execute. So, if you want to create a programming language, you make up a bunch of rules for how a compiler should interpret source code into machine code. Then you make a compiler using another language to get you started.
When you take too big a swallow, it stretches your esophagus, causing it to spasm. This hurts. The OP is talking about two different things. In the title, we are lead to believe that the OP is talking about "stretching your esophagus, causing it to spasm" However, in the comment portion, OP is talking about "There are two major "tubes" that your mouth leads into. One is the esophagus, while the other is the trachea." Sometimes it hurts even when the drink went down the "right" tube. This happens most often with carbonated drinks. The lower pressure outside of the can/bottle and the heat of your body makes carbon dioxide to come out of the soda/pop/coke as you drink it. This is what causes the fizzling effect. It's cool and tasty as long as it happens in your mouth. But what if the fizzling keeps going on after you've swallowed? Your esophagus was preparing to handle an ounce of liquid, but suddenly it has an ounce of liquid *and* a large volume of gas in it. It's as if you swallowed a deflated balloon and it somehow inflated itself while you were swallowing it! This causes painful stretching of the esophagus. [Edit] Obviously, this is more likely to happen when the drink hasn't had enough time to fizzle out before you swallow, like when you drink straight out of a freshly opened, cold can on a hot summer day. As I understand it, your esophagus works in tandem with your mouth to time when it needs to start contracting and relaxing to move food into your stomach. Think of this action like moving a bead from the bottom of your toothpaste container to the opening using both hands instead of one. When you swallow "wrong", you might grab some air instead of the soda at first, which causes some uncomfortable pressure on your esophagus as it moves the air down into your stomach ahead of the beverage. Ever notice you can give pretty rad burps after swallowing "wrong" like that, too? A lot of misinformation in this thread... It has nothing to do with water going down the wrong tube. What happens is that when you normally swallow, you initiate a series of muscular contractions in your throat all the way down to your lower esophageal sphincter. These contractions will normally work to push food/drink down the esophagus into the stomach (this is why you can swallow upside down and not have food/water come out of your mouth). Think of squeezing a pea out of a straw to visualize how it works. When you "swallow wrong", what happens is that the muscle contractions, instead of taking place right above the bolus to push it down, actually takes place at the bolus, causing pain as the muscles squeeze the bolus, instead of pushing it. There are two pipes in your throat: one for food/drink and one for air. When you normally swallow, your air tube closes off and food/drink goes into your food pipe. Two things can go wrong to cause an unpleasant sesnation: 1) food/drink enters your air tube by accident, making you cough and splutter, this is the body's natural response to protect your lungs. 2) the food/drink goes into your food pipe, but something holds it up and it becomes stuck, leading to pain/discomfort. Source: Medical Speech Pathologist specialising in swallowing disorders. There are two major "tubes" that your mouth leads into. One is the esophagus, while the other is the trachea. The esophagus is where foods and liquids go. The trachea leads to your lungs. When you swallow something, a tiny flap called the epiglottis prevents food particles from going into the trachea. However, sometimes this doesn't always work, and food and liquids will go down the wrong pipe (into the trachea instead of the esophagus). This causes nervous reflexes, such as coughing and choking, to get those particles out. For background, I'm a 4th year resident in otolaryngology, so this is right up my alley. To first understand your question more clearly, let's define a few things. Dysphasia: dysfunction of swallow Odynophagia: pain with swallow Aspiration: food/liquid/saliva entering your trachea Aspiration occurs when you have some type of dysfunction of your larynx (structure composed of and supporting vocal cords that elevates during swallow) and epiglottis (cartilage flap that closes over your larynx to protect airway when swallowing). Aspiration cause you to cough. Typically is not painful. This is what happens when people say "it went down the wrong pipe." It can become an issue when it leads to aspiration pneumonia. Older folks and smokers (or other individuals whose lungs and windpipe cannot optimally clear mucus) can develop an infection of the lungs if bacteria continues to enter this area and is not cleared properly. Dysphasia can be divided up into a few different categories. Oral - involving the mouth, all voluntary muscle movement. Thing of someone with a paralyzed tongue trying to push a food bolus to the back of their mouth. Very difficult. Oropharyngeal - a combination of voluntary and involuntary muscle movement. This phase of swallowing is basically your active swallow initiation motion followed by involuntary motion of pharyngeal muscles. Elderly with weak pharyngeal muscles, or someone who has suffered a stroke affecting this area. Additionally, at this stage, if the epiglottis fails to descend properly, aspiration can occur. Esophageal - completely involuntary muscle movement. Dysphasia in this phase can be functional or mechanical. Mechanical occurs if there is some type of obstruction in the esophagus, like a ring, web, or tumor. This type of dysphasia occurs mainly with solid food and not liquid. Functional dysphagia occurs if there is some type of improper muscle motion, like lower esophageal sphincter spasm or diffuse esophageal spasm. It occurs with solid and liquid. Basically there is either a physiologic miscommunication among the nerves or a chronic problem. All these types of dysphagia can present with pain in different areas based on the location of the dysfunction. Typically in the morning, a short lived cramp/pain with swallowing is likely due to an esophageal spasm. When a beverage is swallowed "wrong" generally it is due to a pocket of air in the throat being trapped below the thing being swallowed. This air causes a slightly more dry spot directly below the object being swallowed and thus we feel it more dramatically. This feeling is basically due to the pocket of air, but is also potentially aided by a spasm of the throat. There's a slide that goes from your mouth to your tummy, but it's usually closed off by a little gate. When you're drinking juice, the gate opens so that Juice Man can slide down to your tummy. If you're not paying enough attention when you're drinking, the gates to the slide will forget to open. So when Juice Man jumps for the slide, he slams right through the gate. That's why it hurts when you swallow wrong. The muscles in your throat scramble to save you from it actually going down the wrong tube. To do that, that they have to do a lot more work than normal. And that puts unusual pressure on the nerves in the area and maybe even rips the muscles involved a bit.. both of those would cause pain that stands out from normal sensations, and would be easily noticed.
The scanners would be dangerous to humans, if you went through the machine. That is why they make you put your carry on bags on the belt and walk you through the metal detector without bags. Different technologies. Trust me, they would rather just stick you on the belt.
A combination of nature and nurture. Genetics obviously plays a role at the beginning of life. Someone genetically inclined to have higher cognitive functioning can still be a naive moron if raised in such a way. Same with an average Joe who's seen the world and learned how to process information in an efficient way.
It should be note that both terms (the Machiavellian more than the Bismarckian one) are usually used today to describe something that is often quite different from what those two people actually did and wrote about. Machiavellian has often a sort of evil undertone is basically used as a catchall term for any sort of "evil scheme". Bismarck unlike Machiavelli was somebody who actually got to put his ideas into practice and they worked extremely well. Because of that he is mostly seen in very negative light by the people of the neighbouring countries to whose detriment his success often was and he has gotten a reputation in part not just due to his actual action but also due to his enemies propaganda. Machiavelli's great crime was that he looked at politics like it really was without any pretence and suggest ways to act based not so much on ideology but on the benefit of the approach. It was in a way what we would today call realpolitik. People didn't like that approach and have painted him as evil for basically just telling the truth. (oversimplified) Bismarck was an actual politician who also had a bit of realpolitik in him. He was very much against socialism and everything connected to it, but he was the one who created the welfare system in Germany not to benefit the common people but to steel their support away from the socialists. Bismarck was forever making complicated alliance and treaties playing others out against each other for his benefit. He above all was some smart and wise enough to always see where the wind was blowing from and size any opportunity that arose rather than cling to old plans made before. After the pilot Bismarck left the ship of state his carefully maintained and balanced web of alliances began to unravel until in the end it left Europe in the situation where a continent wide war was inevitable.
It may sound odd, but what is happening when you take a breath is your diaphragm contracts, which causes your lungs to swell and increase in size. This then causes *less* pressure inside your lungs than in the air outside, so air rushes in with a breath as your lungs fill with air. A property of air is that as the velocity (speed) of the air increases, air pressure decreases. Likewise as velocity of air decreases, the air pressure increases. When a gust of wind hits you in the face, suddenly there is less pressure *outside* of your lungs because the air is moving faster with the wind. When you turn your back on the wind to create a still pocket off air, your diaphragm can then decrease the pressure and allow you to take a breath.
It's not that the medal of freedom is exclusive to civilians, it's that there are other medals (such as the medal of honor) which a civilian can't receive. So the medal of freedom is the highest honor which can be given to a civilian, though it can be given to other people too. > Or is my definition of civilian incorrect? "Civilian" is not the same as "citizen". A civilian is just a person who isn't in armed combat or police forces. Also, just because something is the highest honor a civilian is eligible for does not mean that only civilians can be awarded it. It just means that if a military person was awarded the Medal of Freedom they would be eligible for higher honors than that.
A lock-on is an act of focusing the sensor system on a single target so that the target can be automatically tracked. With the sensors in our case being the missile's seeker. Now, in case with an infrared missile such as an AIM-9 Sidewinder, FIM-92 Stinger or R-73, there will be no lock-on warning because the seeker is *passive*. You will only be able to detect incoming fire by spotting the missle itself, and there are plane-based infrared systems to do that for you as well. The good thing is, this is the close-range choice of sensor. There are additional undetectable options, such as no guidance at all, TV guidance (rarely used, and only against ground targets - basically the bombardier uses a camera in the nose to steer the bomb), and GPS guidance (only good enough for bombs used against stationary targets). Long-range missiles and tracking in general relies on radar or ladar; certain anti-ground ordnance relies on designated lasers, and there are similar dynamics for active and passive sonar, but we'll stick to radar as the most prominent example. Now, except for some exotic and finicky variants that piggypack on random radio waves - such as the very first one, using a BBC radio tower - features a source of radio-band electromagnetic radiation (illuminator) that is reflected from the target and then received to identify its azimuth and range. So, you're emitting something - it's an *active* sensor. Using an active sensor is the equivalent of turning on a flashlight in a dark room - you *might* see something, but you'll definitely be seen by everyone in the room. Radars can be detected from roughly twice their effective range using a Radar Warning Receiver, or just a garden-variety radio; furthermore, they can be recognized, their position approximated, their type identified, and their activity determined by their emission characteristic. You can tell whether that idiot with the flashlight is waving it randomly, or it has it pointed right at you... or if there's a beam of red light edging towards your head. A radar in lock-on mode stops sweeping and maintains a focus on its quarry. Now, there are two principal types of radar-guided missiles. Semi-active ones are broken into two subtypes. One type carries the receiver system for the radar, but the emitter stays with the launcher; there, it's just a reasonable inference that the guy who wants to kill you and has a lock also has missiles in the air. The other type are anti-radiation missiles, and they basically target the *enemy's* radar signals; Suppression of Enemy Air Defenses is basically playing whack-a-mole with their AA. The other type, true active guidance, has the whole radar kit onboard the missile, so detecting distinct new radars is already bad news bears.
Now that you mention it...Coconut oil will absorb on my upper body but just sits on my legs. It doesn't even help with the ash. You can see the ash under the oil if you look closely. Do they? I have never heard of this I figure it depends on the oil used, and how much of it they use. AFAIK, oils do not get "absorbed", they just stick to your skin. I think this isn't the case for oils, but for creams and other such products, they have a big amount of water in it. The water eventually evaporates and all that remains is a thin layer of fat which prevents water from evaporating quickly, keeping your skin moist, thus preventing dryness. That's why your skin gets drier after taking a shower: you've taken all the fat from your skin so you dry quickly.
Acquired Savant Syndrome. There's only 30 or so cases ever known. This [Popular Science article]( URL_0 ) has some information but we're not particularly close to figuring out how it works, let alone being able to recreate the effect. There have not been confirmed cases of people getting in an accident and suddenly speaking a foreign language (maybe if they already were learning it...). It's mostly urban myth.
Well kind of. The moon pulls water around causing tides, so it's never really even. To answer your question though, fundamentally yes. No. And it surprises most people who think that water being a liquid finds a consistent level. There are two sea levels generally speaking, the global sea level, and the local sea level. The global sea level is something of a standard, the local sea level reflects the actual difference between the height of the sea at point A and point B. What affects the height of the local sea level? A huge range of factors. Tidal differences caused by the pull of the moon, the variation in the earth's shape, the spin of the earth causing the sea level to be higher at the equator than it is at the poles and many, many more. It's entirely possible for the sea to be at a much higher level in one location than it is in another. Now when it comes to global warming and sea level rises, what effect this will have is also very dependant on what the local sea level height was originally. That means that a 2 metre rise of the sea level on the East side of the United States will not mean there is an equal 2 metre rise on the Western side.
Moisture. Dry foods absorb moisture and get soft. Soft foods (such as bread), lose moisture and get harder. Breads and cakes go "hard" because the moisture in the air actually crystallizes the structure. Cookies on the other hand are much drier and the absorption of water from the air adds moisture to their structure and causes it to re-bond with pliable connections. That's why stale cookies are softer but pliable. Anecdote: jaffa cakes in the UK were the subject of controversy when it was argued that they were biscuits (cookies) and should be taxed higher than they were, as cakes were not taxed as luxuries like cookies were. The main thing that kept them from being taxed as cookies was that they staled hard rather than going soft, which is one of the defining differences.
They are often a monopoly and have really bad customer support. So their prices are too high for what you get and when there is a problem with their equipment it's hard to get them to fix it. Basically have to take a whole day off work. They also lobby to keep competitors out, are against net neutrality and enforce data transfer caps which are artificial and against FCC rules. Basically they are bullies who provide poor service but stay successful due to being a monopoly and working the political system Comcast and other ISPs in the USA (and a similar situation with other ISPs in Canada, Australia, New Zealand, etc) are **geographic monopolies or duopolies** in most cases. Meaning, in any given area, there's only 1 or 2 ISPs you can choose from. This effectively reduces competition to near-zero, especially as these same ISPs have made agreements not to compete in the first place. You'd think "but why don't other ISPs compete with them?", well, that's because they can't. The big ones either made it locally forbidden to do so, or do everything in their power to either destroy the ISP with legal fees from lawsuits or in the worst case, buy them up and remove any chance for competition. That's one aspect why they're hated. Second is their **horrible consumer service**. That's where Comcast takes the cake. It's as if they train their employees to be the worst kind of people possible, right below the ones that actually murder others. But Comcast would, if they could get away with it. Then there's the **net neutrality** thing. ISPs don't like net neutrality because it forces them to compete on their own qualities instead of by setting completely arbitrary restrictions on products and services of others around the world outside of their control, destroying the free market on the Internet. It requires them to treat everyone fairly. They don't like that, it makes them less money. Speaking of completely arbitrary restrictions: **data caps**. They're a cancer on mobile connections already because the layman is stupid enough to fall for the propaganda (e.g. "limited spectrum" or some other bullshit, not knowing shit about the physics behind that limiting only bandwidth and not data). But ISPs in the US take it even further by also restricting cabled connections, and instead of offering normal connections limited only in bandwidth, they double-dip and also limit how much data you can get in a month on top of that. They got billions in **tax-funded grants to improve their networks**. They didn't improve their networks. They pocketed the money and continued to ruin the market. I'm sure there are a dozen other reasons, but these are the ones that just popped into my head. Enjoy hating these ISPs, you deserve to. In November they just introduced data caps in my and many others' area. INTRODUCED data caps. they give you service then the next year it goes up 40bucks the next year after that another 40 but you still have the same service you started with, 2yr agreement 80$ then once its over 200$ per month, and yeah like others have said if your town wants to set up their own internet access for pennies they have to wipe out existing laws preventing them. The u.s. for all intents and purposes is controlled by corporations.
Basically, in this context 'Discipline' is the ability to keep at it and stick to the plan despite how much you have lost interest in it. One can be determined to finish something, but that can be worn away very quickly if it is not reinforced with discipline. Edit: In many ways, determination is synonymous with motivation.
There is no one answer. Military strategy changes based on many factors including political strategy, as you noted the environment, and the opponent's strengths and weaknesses. You take all of those into account and develop your strategy for a particular encounter (and by encounter I mean anything from a battle to an entire war). For a layman's perspective on US military, I'd suggest Tom Clancy's postmortems of Gulf War I such as Battle Ready, Into the Storm, and Every Man A Tiger. ( URL_0 ) They are getting a little old, but they do share a lot about the strategy and are easy to read. Then if you want to get into real strategy text (I've tried a couple times to read these, but never gotten through them), the big ones in the field are On War by Clausewitz and The Art of War by Sun Tzu. Different militaries have different strategies based on their local culture, size of the armed forces, type of equipment they have, budget and national goals. For example ISIS will have a very different strategy from the US military and from the Ethiopian military. Too vague a question, try to narrow your focus and make a new post. As someone earlier said, their is no one size fits all on strategy, on the more basic level as a soldier one important acronym that is used to help decide what course of action to take is METT-TC which stands for Mission, Enemy, Troops, Terrain, Time, and Civilian considerations. These factors, can essentially be used to help formulate most any strategy but, of course, Murphy's law states that what can go wrong will go wrong and this is especially true of military strategy, this is why good leaderships is considered one of the fundamental bedrocks to the military because the expect them to be able to use come up with decisions on the fly without exactly clear and perfect information. This is true from the lowliest of soldiers all the way up to the commander in chief of our military.
In principle, yes. But how many valid PINs exist at any time? Let's be very optimistic and guess 1 billion. There are 10 quadrillion possible 16-digit PINs, so you have a 1 in 10 million chance of guessing a valid PIN. That puts it in the same ballpark as guessing the winning lottery numbers, and there are probably far fewer than a billion active PINs.
The biggest reason is that they were shooting ridiculously huge "minie-ball" ammunition that would absolutely destroy bone as it passed through the body. They had no way to repair this damage. On top of it, antiseptics and antibiotics were limited (at best) and the sheer volume of patients meant it was impossible to take the time necessary to meaningful surgery. You can read more here: URL_0 Because medical technology was not advanced enough to repair shattered bones and shredded blood vessels. The most effective way to save the life was to remove the severely injured limb. Not just the civil war, but in the times previous to that -- when you have major damage to a limb, but medical technology hasn't progressed to the point where you can repair an artery, then you have to amputate the limb or else the person will bleed to death. This was before antibiotics and germ theory, so the only way to stop gangrene was to cut off the affected limb. A new type of bullet, the Minnie ball, also caused more grievous wound.
By detecting the release of two specific chemicals (GABA and Glycine) and observing their interaction with the body. Edit: Grammar
Possibly. A common headache in medicine is seeing "penicillin allergy" on a chart. Research has found that only a small fraction of people who say they're allergic actually are. While we have lots of antibiotics, there are times when a penicillin or related antibiotic is crucial. Drugs with the beta-lactam structure (including penicillins, cephalosporins, and carbapenems) are just plain better at killing bacteria than other types. For run-of-the-mill infections, an antibiotic that simply stops bacteria from growing is fine. If you're critically ill from a bacterial infection, you need a drug that kills. (Historically, it's been said that ten percent of people with penicillin allergy will also react to its beta-lactam cousins, but that's likely an exaggeration.) Mostly, you can get by with alternatives to penicillin. For syphilis in pregnancy, you carefully desensitize the mother with increasing doses. In general, if you really have to give a drug someone is allergic to, you can pretreat them with steroids and antihistamines to blunt the effect. Hey me too, what kind of allergic, like a rash? All I got was a pretty bad rash.
At the time, the coal mines were all owned by the UK government and ran at a loss overall so tax money covered the shortfall. The government was opposed to paying high subsidies to keep the loss-making coal industry running. Very little mechanisation had been introduced to coal mining in the UK, so was very inefficient and expensive due to the high labour costs. The government wanted to stop subsidising the coal industry by introducing mechanisation to try to reduce costs, closing down any mines that were never going to be profitable, and selling-off the profit-making mines to private buyers. The National Union of Miners (NUM) was very strong politically, many Members of Parliament were chosen and funded by the NUM. Their large numbers meant they were able to co-ordinate strikes to disrupt the running of the country until they got their way. The government was also opposed to this and wanted to reduce the unions' power. Introduction of mechanisation and closure of unprofitable mines was very unpopular with the NUM because it would ultimately lead to miners losing their jobs, the UK needing fewer miners and reducing the NUM's power. This was across a wider backdrop of the government wanting to reduce the number of manufacturing and industry jobs and introducing more office-based (service) jobs that was also unpopular with unions generally and causing large-scale unemployment. As the UK was very reliant of coal for electricity, etc, the NUM thought they could coerce the government into changing their mind by calling a strike that would cause coal shortages. The government had prepared for this so shortages never materialised and the NUM were unsuccessful.
In my opinion, driving requires a lot of resources. As you stated in your post, it is a fairly complex activity. Done properly, that is. When driving is becoming "second nature" to you, it's partly because you learn to drive better from experience. The traffic tends to behave more or less consistently, so you learn to anticipate what happens next. Another, more troubling part of this is that you start to be less prudent than before, as you gain your confidence. This is why a lot of accidents is caused by young people who are about a year or so out of driving school. They're already cocky enough to underestimate the risks, yet not experienced enough to make up for it. There are several studies with psychophysiological measurements like EDA (electrodermal activity) or HRV (heart rate variability) applied which suggest that driving of course requires a lot more mental workload than resting in a chair. But I don't think it is possible to make a general statement like "driving is 10 times more stressful than reading a book" or anything similar. The studies also made clear that the experienced stress depends heavily on the environment you're driving in, e.g. driving towards a toll or inside a city centre is much more demanding than cruising on a highway. I can suggest reading A. Healey's and R. W. Picard's "Detecting stress during real-world driving tasks using physiological sensors" from 2005 or similar papers on that subject.
Look up Ben Hecks ps4 and xbox teardowns on YouTube, the main difference as I remember is the xbox has an oversized heat sink as a precaution against the overheating issues of the 360
In the simplest way it's because they broke your rights, typically either legally or your constitution, and if we allowed cops to break these rules for evidence that defeats their purpose in the first place. 2 main reasons why. The first is that any evidence illegal seized is can be viewed as planted. Everyone is innocent until proven guilty so if you commit an illegal search without possible cause then the evidence is not tied to the suspect. The second main reason is that it acts as a deterrent. If illegally gathered evidence was able to be submitted than there would be no real reason to not do it. If all you will face is a B & E, if even that, then why not do it and completely void the amendment. It's to incentivize police to respect suspect's rights. If illegally-obtained evidence was admissible in court, you'd have Dirty Harry breaking into your house and going through your things if he thought you were guilty. (Speaking of Dirty Harry, remember that scene where he tortures the dude by standing on his gunshot wound to get a confession, which is later ruled inadmissible?) Sure, police would still be liable for illegally obtaining evidence but the criminal justice system is slow to punish their own, and many police departments favor convictions over respecting criminal's rights. If police officers just got a slap on the wrist, but allowed them to still use the evidence, then there would be almost nothing to stop them from doing it. Having the evidence thrown out forces them to do good police work to get probable cause for a search warrant It comes from the 4th Amendment to the US Constitution: > The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects against unreasonable searches and seizures shall not be violated, and no warrants shall issue but upon probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched and the persons or things to be seized. [SOURCE]( URL_1 ) In short, it is one of the most basic rights you possess as a US citizen. If police could ignore it and the evidence they illegally gathered was allowed to be admitted to court then that constitutional right would be meaningless. So, the only thing that can be done is to reject all evidence illegally obtained. Unfortunately, this has been one of the most eroded constitutional rights we have. The Supreme Court has given great leeway to law enforcement on this issue. So, while it is not entirely gone it affords you little protection these days (sadly). Indeed it took another hit just last year (mid 2016): [Another Hit to the Fourth Amendment]( URL_0 ) < -- That article describes the dissent which illustrates why this is important...well worth a read.
Athletes have very high aerobic capacity, because they regularly work out at a very high exertion level. As a result, their very fit hearts can pump all the blood their resting body needs at only 40 BPM. It's not a calm/Zen thing, it's a fitness thing. Their heart muscle is stronger than mine, so with each pump it pushes blood harder/further than mine does, so while resting, it doesn't need to pump as much. Also, their lungs and blood are more efficient at getting oxygen into the blood cells than I am, so when blood is sent to muscles and organs, it is more oxygen-rich, meaning those tissues need a "resupply" less frequently. I'm sure this is due to their fitness levels. As an avid cyclist I've read up a bit on this and as your cardiovascular fitness level increases, your resting heart rate decreases. Someone who is extremely unfit would have a resting heart rate much higher than that of your average person and this is what puts them at greater risk of heart disease and stroke.
It's called "last billing." The order that the actors are listed in the credits is listed as billing. Generally, the bigger a name you are, the closer to the front you'll be listed. That's called "Top Billing" and it's the best place to be -- listed first. But sometimes you'll have two actors of similar stature in the same production. Clearly, both of them can't be listed first, so the next best thing is to be at the end of the credits. Typically, it's separated from the rest of the actors with the word "and" or "with", and sometimes the character name is listed as a way to make the credit stand out more, even though it's not top-billed. This is the kind of stuff that's worked out with the agents and the lawyers as part of the casting process. Last billing is a way to give more stature to an actor who doesn't justify top billing, but deserves some recognition. Often you'll see for a big name, but fading star or a star with a lesser role.
Here is a great article for this: URL_0 In short there are a total of 9 steps: * The president considers a nuclear strike * The president convenes a conference with military and civilian advisers in Washington, the consultation may last just 30 seconds. * The president decides to launch: Some advisers may try to change the president’s mind or resign in protest—but ultimately, the Pentagon must comply with the commander-in-chief’s order. * The senior officer in the Pentagon war room must formally authenticate that the person ordering the strike is indeed the president. * The war room prepares the launch order, a message that contains the chosen war plan, time to launch, authentication codes and codes needed to unlock the missiles before firing them. The encoded and encrypted message is only about 150 characters long, about the length of a tweet. It is broadcast to each worldwide command and directly to launch crews. * Launch message in hand, the crews open locked safes to obtain sealed-authentication system (SAS) codes prepared by the National Security Agency and distributed throughout the military’s nuclear chain of command. They compare the SAS codes in the launch order with those in their safes. * If the missiles are launched from a submarine: The captain, executive officer and two others authenticate the order. The launch message provides the combination to an on-board safe holding the “fire-control” key needed to deploy the missiles. Missiles are ready for launch about 15 minutes after receiving the order. * If the missiles are launched from land: Five launch crews in various underground centers control a squadron of 50 missiles. Each crew consists of two officers. The individual teams are spread miles apart. Each receives the orders, opens safes and compares their SAS codes to those sent by the war room. If they match, the crews enter the message’s war plan number into their launch computers to re-target missiles from their peacetime targets in the ocean to their new targets. Using additional codes in the message, the crews enter a few more keystrokes to unlock the missiles before turning launch keys retrieved from their safe. At the designated launch time, the five crews turn their keys simultaneously, sending five “votes” to the missiles. Mutiny is unlikely It takes just two “votes” to launch the missiles. So even if three two-officer ICBM crews refuse to carry out the order, it won’t stop the launch. **Missiles are launched** About five minutes may elapse from the president’s decision until intercontinental ballistic missiles blast out of their silos, and about fifteen minutes until submarine missiles shoot out of their tubes. Once fired, the missiles and their warheads cannot be called back. **TL;DR** It takes as little as five minutes to launch a nuke. No one can refuse a launch and it is virtually impossible once the decision has been made (In theory) To launch the nukes the President needs the Secretary of Defense to also agree. The two of them tell the Joint Chiefs of Staff to launch who then tell the CO of the facility or sub they want a launch and then the guys with the actual keys launch the nuke. If the President is really nuts this won't get passed the Secretary of Defense. If he is also bonkers anyone down the chain can commit insubordination and stop the launch. Mind you if one Silo wont launch and everyone above them agrees they'll just call another silo.
Oof. This is gonna be some weird Google searches, eh? Development of male genitalia is dependent upon the production of the testosterone enzyme dihydrotestosterone, which is produced by the testes. As the various types of genital tubing is elongating and growing to form the penis, the penis organ system (both the reproductive and unitary system) should contain folds. The folds lie on either side of the membrane that will begin to form the organ system, and move towards each other while they form a groove, this is known as the urethral groove. The urogenital folds fuse together on the ventral side of the developing penis, enclosing what will now become the urethra. With a boy, the genital tuber will form the penis gland (the head). The body of the penis will be formed by the fusion of the urogenital folds, this fusion is not yet completely finished. The scrotum is formed by the fusion of the labioscrotal folds, the midpoint of which corresponds to the zone of fusion of the labioscrotal folds. Female development is pretty much the same, however at the point where the penis would form, a vagina forms instead since the folds on a female fetus will not fuse as well. Because of this, the tubes that would form the penis shaft will now form the labia. The genital tuber will form the clitoris. So yes, more-or-less, where a clitoris would be is where the base of a penis would be, and vice versa.
Totally winging this, but I'm guessing it just wasn't diagnosed much before reading small text became a part of daily life. If you learned to read when younger but need bifocals at 40, who cares if you already know everything you need to know? Because being outside prevents nearsightedness. Children spend more time indoors which changes the way your eyes focus on things and you don't get enough natural light. Screens and reading in low light also cause problems with your eyes. URL_0 I don't believe there is a 'right' answer to this. My opinion is that much more work is being done on computer screens that are incredibly bright and a close distance from your face. This can be reduced by some simple things like taking 'eye breaks' from a screen, turning down the computer monitor's (or other device) brightness, or even just sitting a little farther back from the screen. It's not technically considered ergonomics, but I believe it falls within that realm.
Because they all are randomly out of tune, but just slightly, so they add up around the proper notes. On average you get a sound that is more intense around the right notes and their harmonics (which makes it sound non-dissonant), and the out of tune sounds just becomes a bunch of overtones making the sound a richer and more complex timbre. [See this old comment I made]( URL_0 ) for some technical details and visuals. It's sometimes called "detuning", used in music recording when a whole bank of synthesizers are all tuned slightly differently, producing a very "fat" and "soft" waveform. Very similar is the difference between a solo violin and an orchestra full of them. Love the latter, not a fan of the former. In a group of violinists, each will be playing a slightly different tone, but they'll average out to the right one, so that's the one we hear. When a solo violinist is a little off key (which they often are), it's easy to hear and unpleasant to the trained ear. Can you give an example of 50,000 people singing out of tune which sounds amazing? I don't believe the premise.
While not exact, and assuming only minimal physical exercise, a person needs to eat roughly 11x their body weight in pounds to maintain their weight. For instance, the average male is 180lb (~82kg), which means they need 1980 calories to maintain their weight, which is where the 2000 diet comes from on nutrional labels and their calculated percentages of you daily value of fats, protein, etc. For a 5ft 8in male, the average weight is 120lb-165lb (~54.4kg to ~75kg). Since you are at 78kg, that means you take in roughly 1900 daily calories. To maintain 60kg, that's ~1450 daily calories. 1lb of fat is 3500 calories, so if you only eat 1200 daily calories, it should take you roughly 3 months to achieve your weight goal. However, getting fit is better than getting skinny, you don't need to be benching 150kg or anything, but getting to 65-70 kg and being fit is better. To reduce daily calories, simple stuff is just cutting out cheese, most any drink besides water, etc. is an easy starting place.
[This]( URL_0 ) is a pretty good description for why they don't freeze. In a nutshell, bird's feet are little more than skin, bone and sinew, and their blood flows so fast that it doesn't have time to freeze in the first place. Their circulatory system is also set up to reduce heat loss through their feet, which could make the rest of their body colder.
Because it's actually cheaper to make processed food. Processed food doesn't go bad as fast as non-processed because processed food is full of preservatives and chemicals. Pepsi is made of water, corn syrup, food coloring and carbon dioxide of which all are plentiful and cheap. Fresh oange juice is made from a fruit and some water with no preservatives. Oranges take a longer time to grow and without preservatives the actual juice will breakdown and degrade which makes its usability much shorter.
Well at is most basic you type in something and the computer checks that against the value stored in a database. You might enter "gaussianpc" as your username and "hunter2" as your password and the computer checks a table of usernames and passwords if the password next to the username your gave is the same as the one you typed. Of course this is an extremely stupid way to do it and nobody does it like that anymore. Instead of writing the password into its table of passwords exactly as you tryped it in the normal way is to "hash" it first. Instead of writing your password as it is, it is first run through an algorithm and turned into something like this: "f3bbbd66a63d4bf1747940578ec3d0103530e21d". The same password is always turned into the same hash, but anyone reading the table won't know what to type since it is not easily reversed. This means that even the people working at google or facebook or whatever can't easily know what your password is and for example try to use it steal data from a different account where you used the same password. Of course the system is not fool proof and many screw up when trying to build it, but generally the only place your password should be stored permanently is in your head.
If the Universe has positive curvature then it will be finite. Having positive curvature basically means that giant triangles will have the three angles summing to more than 180 degrees. (Negative curvature means the three angles of giant triangles will sum to less than 180 degrees, and a flat universe has zero curvature and the sum of the three angles of giant triangles is 180). You can see an example of positive curvature by drawing a triangle on a globe with one corner at a pole and the other two corners on the equator. The sum of the three angles will be greater than 180 degrees... spheres have positive curvature and if the universe was like that it would be finite.
Emotional pain is interpreted the same as physical pain in the brain. Body releases adrenaline in a fight or flight reaction, just like with physical pain. In that state of mind, your body's focus switches over from digestion and relaxation to escape or fight. Muscles tense, digestion slows down, heart rate increases, and your body get a ready to do something. Panic can be a normal response to this.
Testosterone gets converted to a chemical called DHT (Dihydrotestosterone). DHT is what causes hair loss, specifically in people who suffer from male pattern baldness. DHT is an Androgen (masculine hormone), so it's responsible for facial hair amongst other things. While it's present in women, it doesn't have a role to play. It has higher levels in men, and is responsible for a lot of the puberty stuff for us guys. Body and facial hair is triggered at puberty by a chemical called DHT. Your body manufactures DHT from testosterone. The higher your testosterone level, the higher your DHT. DHT is actually far more androgenic than "pure" testosterone, and has a stronger impact on personality, sex drive, etc. The hair follicles on the top of your head are different from everywhere else. They are actually slowly killed off by DHT rather than promoted by it. The rate at which this happens depends on your genetics: some guy's heads are basically immune to DHT, while others start losing hair as early as puberty. So in order to lose your hair, you need both high testosterone levels, high conversion to DHT, and hair that is particularly susceptible to it. That's why some guys who take artificial testosterone or steroids, which boost those levels, will accelerate or cause baldness, while it has no effect on others. It is generally the hair on the very top of your head that is the most sensitive. That's why guys often go bald on top but keep a strip of hair around the back and sides of their heads. And it's also why hair transplants, which pull follicles from the back of your head, are usually not just immediately lost again. No expert but believe it is linked to testosterone levels and the vulnerability of the hair follicles that are more susceptible to testosterone that reside on the head. Hair on the head is often finer and more fragile. Genetics also plays a part.
As a guy who has worked professionally as a sound engineer, I'll tell you, your hearing acuity goes just as soon, if not sooner. The difference is that most people don't rely on the detail-oriented parts of their hearing as much, at least not consciously, so you notice your eyes first. Have you ever noticed that when you're tired it's easier for someone to walk up next to you or behind you and you to not hear them? Or that you don't really hear what is being said to you? In a studio environment, the first way I notice that I'm getting tired and it's time to call it a day is that I can't discern details as easily. It's all about input, sensory stress, and what you are focused on. If you feel your eyes (or body) starting to shut off, you'll notice your arms will weigh a metric ton. Your head is more an Easter Island head. Everything becomes foggy. It's sneaky and you might not even notice i happening. This is (from what I understand) your body releasing natural melatonin and trying to get you to crash. It's actually easy to get rid of, short term at least. Just stand up. Shake your head like a dog. Do jumping jacks. Walk around the room. Do push-ups. Just moving your blood a little will do wonders. Source : locomotive engineer. Staying awake for 30+ hours just comes natural anymore. We just tend to notice eyes first even when other senses are losing focus, as numbness in your limbs, or when people have to repeat what they said because you weren't listening. Also eyes have mechanical shutters that make quite obvious the loss of focus. Ophthalmologist here.I don't see anyone touch on the right answer so I'll chime in. Our neutral eye position is actually not looking straight ahead, but actually directed outward towards your ears (this is known as exotropia). In fact, if you look at a picture of our bony orbits, they actually point away from each other. Our eyes overcome this by constantly converging, or turning both of your eyes toward each other. We are very good at this, as demonstrated by how easy it is to cross our eyes, but nearly impossible to move our eyes in separate directions in any other fashion. Whenever the fusion of our two eyes is broken, most people tend to have their eyes drift towards their ears (this is called exophoria). When we get tired, this exophoria happens more as the drive to fuse our two eyes diminishes. This causes a slight double vision and describes what you are referring to. Fun fact, as you can imagine, our eyes drift towards our ears when we fall asleep for the reason I described above. Babies are generally born with their eyes drifted outwards. And our eyes drift outwards when we pass away. Throughout the day, I would argue it is the most strained of our 5 senses. Especially in our culture today, from a young age, you're required to focus on computer screens, smart phones, and do not give your focused sight enough rest. When you think about it, our vision has to meet very high demands throughout the day: driving, reading, computer usage, phone usage, etc, but we don't give it proper breaks, we work in poor lighting conditions, we subject our eyes to high contrasts, the list goes on. I don't know if this helps, but it's my attempt. Edit: grammar Someone said that I didn't have any basis for what I was saying, so I pulled some references (first is the best, from 1875): URL_0 URL_1 URL_2 The primary thing keeping your eyes focused are these small, thin, muscles attached to your lens. When you're tired, these muscle relax and the tension is released, causing the lens of change shape and therefore your vision gets blurry. Your other senses are a bit more passive in that you can't really turn then off. There's no muscles that govern taste or smell as they are chemical senses, so when odorant molecules enter your nose, it stimulates those receptors. Same with your tongue. Hearing is governed by a small membrane in your inner ear that converts sound waves in the air to ripples in a fluid filled organ. When the fluid vibrates, it also vibrates tiny hair cells that convert that into a an electric impulse that your brain perceives as hearing a"sound". In order for your eyes to receive light, your lens needs to focus it onto your retina through your pupil. But if the muscles holding the lens are slack from fatigue, it doesn't bend to focus the light and your vision becomes blurry. In that regard, vision is the first "sense" to deteriorate when tired/sleepy, as it's the only sense that requires musculature assistance (in this case, for focalization of light through the flexion of the ocular lens) Why do we talk jibberish when we are falling asleep trying g to stay up. I remember trying to talk to my girlfriend in the phone when I was dead tired and she said I was switching topics out of the blue Your eyes have tiny muscles used to focus so when you are tired they are one of the first things to "relax". This is why you lose focus. loss of focus and impression of seeing double are actually early signs of muscular diseases like myasthenia. (Pleese keep in mind that not everyone who experiences double vision has myasthenia...) Edit : spelling The eyes are noticed first as they are how we see the world, but I bet that smell goes first, just as it does when drinking alcohol. Seeing is hard as shit, man! Brains don't have it easy. Hearing is just some waves. Smell, touch, and taste are just little doodads being tickled by different stuff. All those things are just kinda there. Seeing takes all sorts of work, and your brain is fuck when you're tired. Source: am scientist in lab Yeah, sight is the most intensive, but that's not really why your eyes begin to lose focus. When you're tired/relaxed, your parasympathetic nervous system takes over and your sympathetic system gets weaker. They're counteracting forces that balance each other throughout the day. Your lens (and pupil) is like a camera lens aperture, and they're regulated by these systems. There's three muscle groups important in focusing: a radial group for enlargement of the pupil (dilator pupillae), a circular group set to decrease pupil size on contraction (sphincter pupillae) and cilliary muscles. The dilator pupillae is stimulated through noradrenergic receptors by the sympathetic nervous system. The sphincter pupillae is stimulated through muscarinic receptors by the parasympathetic nervous system. These constrict to prevent too much light from hitting the periphery of your retina, which will blur images. The third is the cilliary muscles, which functions to change the focal distance of the eye so that it can focus on objects at various distances, thus allowing a sharp real image of the object of interest to be formed on the retina. It's also why when you overdose on opiates, your eyes are ~~wide~~ pinpoints. When you get scared, your pupils get ~~constricted~~ wide. Your eyes actually use muscles to focus and change direction etc. Your other senses don't actually use much energy to work. Obviously moving your limbs becomes more difficult as well and that is where you will feel it. But hearing, smell, taste and touch are senses that you can easily use even if you are seriously exhausted. I actually notice my hearing going a bit wonky when I'm drowsy/exhausted. Things seem to be muffled until something loud or abrupt happens and then it's as if i'm startled back awake. Narcoleptic here. I am curious what it feels like to get tired like a "normal" person. It goes slowly, sense by sense, or? They don't. Musicians get worse at recognizing intervals and rhythmic patterns. I'm sure smell and taste and feel gets worse as well. Try some fine motor skills when you're tired. You just rely more on sight. They don't, that's just what you notice first. The problem is that when the brain shuts down parts or stops processing senses, there's nothing to tell you that it isn't working. The brain is a machine produced by survival. The ability to keep working with as much damage or impairment as possible, is a survival trait. Our eyes require muscles to use right? Smell, hearing, touch, and taste don't require muscles to use. Just signed up far a hypnotherapy session and was told to read this URL_0 Doesn't tell you the chemical reason, but you're basically going into hypnotic state. I do this all the time so I'll be using his help to control myself hypnotizing my self haha! Not seeing a good answer here. It has to do with the Reticular Activating System (RAS) in the brainstem. There are fibers that course from there to the cortex and other nuclei related to vision, motor function, balance, and auditory sensation. In times of wakefulness the RAS is responsible for maintaining signals that keep you focused and awake (histamine is one of these signals - that's why histamine-blockers such as Benadryl make you sleepy). In a nutshell, there are wires that meet in the brainstem from all the major senses, including motor function, so all it takes is a little decrease in the RAS to promote slower frequency of firing within these fibers creating what we call "drowsiness". Extending on this, what are the eebie jeebies sensation in your legs, where you cannot keep still? Seeing needs more brain power than touching smelling hearing and tasting so when your eyes do a lot of stuff they get sleepy. Just like you I went to a house party and drank until 8 am, I started work at noon so tired I couldn't see anything because it was all so blurry! This makes sense to me. We live and breathe in one simulation. When we get tierd our player is logging out giving us access to be free under an illusion. Vampires for example have players that never turn off their screen
From what I remember learning, it's very similar to a hangover. You become dehydrated from dispelling so much fluid out of your eyes. You tense up while crying, so the blood vessels in your head become strained. So if you don't drink water after a crying spell you essentially get a hangover.
In starcraft, each unit has a "counter-unit". At the highest difficulty, an AI will likely have one of its workers or cheap units in your base, watching your build, while simultaneously building the counter to what you have. This is how it decides upon the macro side of the game. For the micro (individual skirmishes or fights), each unit has a given value to variables such as damage, range, and speed, and the AI can make a decision to fight, run, or a combination of the two based on the units it owns and the units you own in each respective fight. If you think about it, starcraft isn't a hard game to learn from a "what-to-do" standpoint of what you should be building and which fights to pick and which ones to run from. The hard part of the game is getting your ideas from your head to the game while managing everything simultaneously, but an AI can do this all instantly, making it quite difficult to best the hardest AI's. All it has to do is simply separate the big picture (buildings and units) from the small stuff (fights and movement). Source: High master rank in starcraft with lots of bot games played as well.
This might be a snarky response but: have you purchased any 30-40$ mobile games? If you can play a game for free, what you are playing is what someone could create on a fairly small budget, in a fairly small studio, and then sell to investors in order to produce. Most of these games are riddled with ads and microtransactions because those provide a source of income that is lost by not charging players for the initial purchase. Games with an initial charge make their money through game sales; those with very low costs rely either on volume or on other methods to pay for the costs of development. Triple-A hand-held games, like Pokemon, are developed and marketed by companies that are usually very large and have entire teams dedicated to promoting the game; they also cost more to buy up-front. Finally, note that while the gameplay may be limited in "free" games, the graphics and potential are much better than older handheld systems, with social capabilities that those older systems lacked due to the connected nature of smartphones. touch-screens are horrible for most games. Gameboy is way better. A solid set of buttons for controls is how games are meant to be played and CPU power does not make the game. Style of game-play does I assume because most mobile developers want to make as much money as possible. This means the target audience are largely nongamers. The best games that anyone can play are simple and repetitive to get as many people as addicted as possible. Complex stories, concepts, and challenges would largely scare away nongamers. In contrast, things like gameboy games need to be geared towards a gamer. Instead of just a way to spend $5 or waste 5 minutes, gamers want a deep and rich experience, something that will make you care about what's going on in the game world and get immersed in it.
Social security is a tax. The taxes of people working are used to pay benefits for the elderly. Your benefits are based on the taxes you paid, up to a maximum amount. But it is still a tax, not a savings plan. If there is not enough revenue to pay for social security benefits, either taxes would be raised, benefits cut, or debt accrued. The money that gets taken out of your paycheck today for Social Security pays for today's retirees. Your Social Security payments would come from people working when you retire. Social Security is not a savings plan. Social Security has a surplus fund that was built up over several years when it took in more money than it paid out. That fund is expected to run out sometime around 2035. After that, the money for Social Security will come from each year's taxes. Each year, the Social Security taxes take in about 75% of the necessary money. So when the funds run out there are two options: (1) Raise taxes or (2) accept Social Security payments dropping to 75% of what they are now.
They train to perform well for their sport. If you do something that is challenging repeatedly your body adapts. So their bodies are more efficient with oxygen, and they probably have a large lung capacity and good control over their heart rate. Some of these records are also set by breathing in pure oxygen. There's a video out there of a ted talk David Blaine did explaining how he got his record of holding his breath under water. He talks about the process and training of it. Edit: here's the link URL_0
I think you're reading the inference of the phrases incorrectly. The phrases exist because they are exceptions to the norm. A Daddy's Girl is called that because it is worth remarking on(and vice versa) it being assumed that most children latch on to the parent of the same sex, therefore the phrases show a difference from the normal, assumed default.
Um fresh ground peanut butter from a health food store comes in the containers you desire and its way yummier.
The C compiler will craft a request to the operating system to assign an available memory location to hold an integer. When it's time to store a number there, the CPU will put an electric signal on its address bus pins equal to the binary address of that memory location, and a signal on its data bus pins equal to the binary version of the number 5, and then briefly electrify the "Store" pin to tell the memory subsystem to accept this write request.
Many older neighborhoods started out with much larger lots for each house. As time went on the lots were divided up and newer houses built on the new, smaller lots. Most neighborhoods built after the 1950s, ie subdivisions in the suburbs, are built all at once. Meaning they will all be built within a year of each other and use 1-5 building plans. Homes built in cities or on privately owned lots outside the city limits that are not a part of a subdivision are built as the owner wants them built so can vary decades from the homes around them. So yes, it is because people buy and build their homes independently rather than through a planned neighborhood. And that is not a thing of the past. You still build independently when you are not buying through a subdivision.
We adapted to be upright in the sunshine with little to no fur density which allowed us to run down prey over long distances.The open skin allowed for good sweat cooling but sweat we did and in a full run and sweating that's bad for visibility.Sweat in our eyes was reduced if we had little directional hairs over our eyes to redirect the sweat away. Those that had this particular trait would have an easier time catching prey and surviving. They keep sweat from your forehead dripping in your eyes. Humans evolved to be long-distance runners and to be able to cool by sweating. This helps keep salty sweat from messing with your vision. Also, an amazing amount of dust is deflected by the presence of eyebrows. The answer to pretty much every question along the lines of, "Why does [animal] have [body part]?" is always the same: throughout the course of evolution, said body part either: - gave our ancestors some type of an edge over competition, allowing them to either live long enough to breed or leading mates to choose them over others (new traits developing) or - did not provide a disadvantage, so members of the population that still had the trait were just as likely to survive and breed as those without it (old traits remaining) answers beyond this are generally going to be speculation. it may be good speculation based on observed functions of the body part, and many experts will make educated guesses the educated guess with eyebrows is that they kept sweat, dirt, and debris out of the eyebrow-haver's eyes, which is helpful for obvious reasons. another main function is they they aid in communication - think of the difference between > :( and < :(. so our ancestors with eyebrows were able to function better as part of a society, perhaps communicate while doing life-preserving activities, and potentially find mates.
Driving is pretty taxing mentally, especially on a busy road you're constant at a peak awareness to make sure you don't crash and die. Mentally tired is something that can happen too.
It doesn't. You don't need life insurance if no one is dependent on you. Babies don't have people depending on them. The product is basically bullshit. A whole lot of these comments show a lack of understanding on how different life insurance policies work. Gerber and the like sell whole life insurance which straddles the line between an investment and a life insurance policy. The payments you make toward the policy go toward a cash value which gains interest. You can cash out the policy to access that money but depending on the policy there may be restrictions or penalties to do that. So the policy can act as insurance in case the child does die to help with expenses, it could be cashed out in a time of need for the family(hardship, college, etc.), or you could continue contributing and keep the policy. As others have said, it can also be useful if your child develops a condition that would then prevent them from getting life insurance. Heart conditions, cancer, lung conditions, and a lot of others can make insurance much more expensive or even disqualify them. As long as you continue to make payments, the policy will stay valid even after a diagnosis like the above. The downsides is that it's more expensive than term life, and not usually as good of an investment as putting them money into stocks/bonds/indexes, as these policies tend to have pretty low rates on them. The main reason why it's marketed that way is because there's no good way to say "buy this in case your kid dies". Saying it gives them a "good financial start" is more palatable. Now, whether it's actually a sound investment is up to you to decide but, as many others pointed out in this thread, it's probably not. 95% of the time it is a horrible option However, some of us developed cancer as young adults and are now functionally uninsurable. Edit* Dad got talked into a whole life insurance policy for me back in early 80s back when interest rates were astronomical. He has had a decent guaranteed rate of return for > 30 years and now it is the only life insurance policy I can ever get. Not a great investment for most everybody, but it worked out for me. It's whole life, which is a terrible investment. There are much better ways to invest for your child.
1/Distance^2 (As distance increases the luminosity gets exponentially smaller) Basically the further out the light is shined, the less luminosity it has. While the direct light source can be seen easily from a distance, the surrounding area that is lit up is very hard to observe from a distance while the driver can easily see the immediate surrounding much easier. My terminology may be completely incorrect and same with the formula. I pretty much just pulled it out of the back of my head from very distant memories from physics class in high school lol Most materials reflect a fairly small amount of incoming light. As an extreme example, [vantablack]( URL_2 ) will show virtually nothing. More importantly, light that is reflected is scattered in all directions, actually more away from you than towards you (the [specular]( URL_0 ) or mirror-like component, as opposed to [diffuse]( URL_3 )). What would be a bright point light blinding you if you were standing there is literally diluted, making only a small amount reach back to the lamp. Adding to the above is that your light hits the road at a very oblique angle. Any bit of light is spread over a large area, making even the diffuse component quite dark. [Retroreflectors]( URL_1 ) compensate to some extent by reflecting more of the light back to your general vicinity. That's how signs treated that way light up so much from your perspective when you shine a light on them.
I watched it and figured it out. At 50 second mark he fans through the deck, he's looking at the top cards. He even slows down so he can see the top 3 cards. He then does a few semi false shuffles. The top of the deck is never mixed with the rest and always remains on top. When he splits the deck into 3 piles, the top is put in the middle and that is where he directs the other guy to take his card from. He already knows he is picking the Ace of hearts, the rest is just showmanship and entertainment. Shuffling doesn't change anything. After Chris looks through the deck to find the Ace, he moves it to the near bottom of the deck. Probably an even position such as 6th from the bottom. Take note of the card burning. He reveals a card, it's not correct do he deals it to the table and burns a card. The burning is to hind the fact that the card dealt to the table at least once didn't come from the bottom of the deck so the A is now on the table. The showing of the 4 cards on the table, he shows a card, the 3 of clubs, false deals the Ace onto the table again, and burns the 3 back to the top of the deck. He shows another card. Then the last 2 cards at the same time to help hide that we already saw that 3 earlier. The last bit is him placing the bottom card firmly in his hand with the top 3 cards loose on top. Slap away the 3 cards and look cool. This is basically the only trick I know :) He knows by looking through the deck that the ace is Will's card (3rd from top). Where he places it doesn't matter. By fanning though the deck he places the ace at position 3 from bottom Show bottom card. Deposit shown card to new pile. Burn card to top of deck. Now ace is position 2. Show card Using slight of hand slide back position 1 to pull from position 2. Deposit ace from position 2 to the pile (now position 2 on pile) Burn shown card. Repeat the sleight of hand on the smaller pile to move ace from position 2 to 1. Place in hand and hold bottom card (ace). And slap! Sorry if formatting is messy. Mobile.
Acne is predominantly triggered by hormonal imbalances. When you are stressed, your body produces excess stress hormones, such as adrenaline and cortisol. Just imagine your computer's available memory being your skin. In order for it to run smoothly, you don't want to clog it up by running a ton of unnecessary programs. In regular use, the computer does its job by allocating memory needed to run programs and allow you to multi-task. But if you try to render a 3D-model, while playing a game at its highest settings, while bitcoin mining, while aggressively compiling that stupid powerpoint with ugly wordart, all at the same time, you stress out your computer's memory. It has a harder time allocating/managing your memory resources, just like your immune system has a harder time managing the resources necessary to clear the acne-bacteria at its normal rate. IANA biologist or doctor, but it is my understanding that stress reduces the effectiveness of the bodies immune system. Acne is caused by bacteria, and if your body is having a harder time fighting that bacteria then it will spread and get worse. Your body does a whole lot of different things at the same time, but it also has the capacity to 'redirect resources' from things that aren't that important towards things that seem to be really important right now. Stress is usually a symptom of your body focusing on something, for example, you have been staying up late and spending all your free time studying for a really important exam. Your body has recognized that you aren't sleeping well, that you probably aren't eating well and that you are using your brain a lot. In response, your body has redirected resources from your immune system to your energy production system so that there is enough energy to keep your brain and body working while you aren't sleeping and eating properly.
they don't. chameleons change to fit their mood. they don't change to camouflage. on other hand, animals like cuttlefish and flounder, use their eyes to see what to colors and patterns to change to
Your duodenum (the part after your stomach in the digestive tract) has Brunner glands which secrete a lot of HCO3- and neutralize the acid. This is necessary to prevent damage to the intestinal mucosa and to keep the pH under optimal conditions for the action of intestinal enzymes. The remaining part of your intestines also have their own HCO3- secreting glands.
The streaming services collect all the money from subscriptions and ads, then each artist is paid their percent of the total streams. If there's only 100 streams that months, and Taylor Swift songs account for 10 of those, she gets 10% of the revenue that month. When you break it down, each streamed song gives the artist about $0.007. Spotify' analytics break this down better if you want to see their total streams and their policies and stuff. This is sad because then that sliver of he pie is broken down even more and divvied up between the record label, management, legal, and THEN the artist, which ends up being a fraction of a sliver of not a whole lot of money for your art. Which is still better than stealing the music, but not as good as actually buying the product and seeing your favorite artists live.
Your blood contains a clotting factor that causes the blood to clot and close the hole. The hole is really very very small os this can be done quickly and easily. Plus after the hole is made, the phlebotomist typically tells you to apply pressure, which closes the hole and speeds clotting. In contrast, occasionally, the person making the needle hole can mess up and poke a hole into the vein and then out of the vein on the other side. In such a case, it does keep bleeding for awhile and you get a big bruise from the blood that escaped the vein.
Luminescence is the emission of light but that does not also emit heat. This is in contrast to incandescence, which is the emission of light as a result of heat. For example the chemicals in a glow stick are luminescent but a bonfire or an old-fashioned light bulb is incandescent. Fluorescence is the emission of light as a result of the absorption of light, where the emitted waves are usually of a lower wavelength than the absorbed waves. We normally think of fluorescence when the object in question absorbs invisible ultraviolet light but emits visible light, such as a white cotton shirt under a blacklight.
I think the premise is false - just because it seems unnecessary, it's highly unlikely anybody is going to build needlessly curvy roads. Obvious factors would be geography (Sometimes cheaper to simply avoid a big rock formation than to go through it), land ownership (maybe they couldn't acquire the land, or again, it was cheaper to go around), following a previous road/trail rather than trying to re engineer it, avoiding any other obstacles and, finally, some roads are built deliberately curvy to increase driver concentration. Many very long roads add "unnecessary" bends in order to keep drivers awake and alert. Long stretches of straight road tend to put tired drivers to sleep, which is obviously a safety hazard. There's a multitude of reasons why road designers do this. Chasing the straight is the biggest reason. Roads that wind through uneven areas will often chase the straightest path that involves the engineers having to do the least amount of work levelling the ground. It's often cheaper and easier to extend the road a few hundred meters or even miles than it is to have to bring in the engineering resources to level the ground to build the road. The next most common reason is a winding road is easier to travel up/down a gradient. Let's imagine you are at the foot of a steep hill. You can walk up that hill one of two ways. You can walk up it in a straight line and fight the gradient all the way up, or you can walk a "Wavy" indirect path that extends the distance you have to walk but decreases the gradient, making it easier, if a bit longer. Just like your legs, a vehicles engine and brakes will have an easier time of it ascending or descending the gradient if it does this. The third most common reason is that sometimes its just easier to avoid something that the engineers knew was there but is not immediately obvious to you. Like marshy ground beneath the surface. In the UK there is a motorway called the M62 that is bisected by a [lone farm and looks extremely odd]( URL_0 ). Many people believe that the farm is still there because the owners refused to sell their land. The real reason is the ground around the farm is so marshy its unsuitable for a road, the engineers simply went round it and did not need to demolish the farm, so they left them there. There was some flawed research many years ago that led to the thinking that drivers are less likely to fall asleep if they are forced to drive to a curve. This was quickly debunked but it led to a common myth that motorways developed during the 60's and 70's where designed with this research prompting the constant curves in them. The real reason is that they where designed with shallow curves to eliminate the amount of sharper curving that might be required and thus maintain higher speeds and prevent slow-down or braking pinch points. A similar myth often leads to the belief that roads are sometimes designed with curves/bends to force drivers to obey a speed limit. No road designer would ever do this. All roads are designed to be navigated as fast as possible as an efficiency metric. Any road that is by design slowing the traffic down is inherently inefficient and will cause problems. Believe it or not, property ownership is rarely a barrier to a roads construction and it rarely dictates the path a road has to take. If a road is considered necessary, many compulsory purchase laws exist in most countries that allow the land in question to be compulsory purchased from the land owner to allow the road to proceed. As I alluded to above, many people believe this is the reason the [farm that bisects the M62 in the UK]( URL_0 ) remains where it is in its odd location. The real reason is the engineers didn't want it as it was a unsuitable path for the road to take. Had they wanted it, they would have gotten it (Just like they compulsory purchased all the houses and farms that surrounded it). Many times because you can't see and are completly unaware of why. This includes geological formations, various barriers of material, utilities that need to be run, grading and drainage issues and a myriad of planning that goes into road engineering. A properly built road takes those factors in, it doesn't just appear.
The air conditioner has a motor which compresses the gas hence it is called the compressor. If you start the compressor after a period of being off then the electric motor, the compressor, starts against no load. It does not begin pumping against a compressed gas. It is easier for a motor to start against no load. If the air conditioner was running then there is likely to be compressed gas still in the system. That is why the compressor is there. The compressor starts from zero speed against a load just as you might begin pedaling up a hill on a bicycle. Electric motors draw a large current getting started. They will draw even more when starting under a load.
Regular eyesight has a resolution equivalent to around __576 megapixels.__ This is the resolution that must be matched in order for VR to appear 100% real. (Although lower resolutions might suffice, too.)
You are incredibly mistaken on how easy it would be to make a soldier bulletproof. When you shoot someone they suffer bruised and/or broken ribs even with the hugeass vest and ceramic plates in it. This is assuming the bullet doesn't go through and cause them a really nasty injury if not death. The technology to make a soldier bulletproof does not exist, and by the time it does guns will be advanced enough to go through it anyway. And then you get into the issue that it would be hot as hell inside a full body suit, not to mention very expensive. In short it can't be done, especially not in a cost effective way. Combat veteran and police officer here: For one, knights did not move around easily. They were mostly mounted on horseback. You could put a soldier in head-to-toe armor, but he wouldn't be able to physically move. The ceramic SAPI plates that US military personnel wear weigh about 30 lbs. On top of that, you've got a helmet, weapon, ammunition, and whatever gear you need for that mission. Going out on a routine patrol, you'll probably be carrying about 150+ lbs of gear on you in total. So there's a balance. You protect the vital organs, and train hard to avoid getting shot in the first place. On top of this, there's nothing "bulletproof" that a human can wear. You will still be injured if you get shot, and nothing protects against all types of ammunition.
> Kind of ironic that I'm asking for an explanation, but aren't explanations how you understand things? There are a couple of options. He might just be spouting nonsense zen shit and just be wrong. That is an option. Or perhaps he is trying for a more subtle point. Explanations provide information, while the understanding is the responsibility of the perceiver. If you knew the information already you should be able to understand the concept already; if you can think enough to comprehend when it is explained then you could already understand the concept. Or maybe he is making the point that if you couldn't apply yourself and figure it out without help then you would be beyond help anyway. That quote doesn't apply to everything. In IQ84 there was a lot of magical realism shit going on; things that couldn't necessarily be explained, but just were, and you either got it or didn't, and explaining it further wasn't going to change that. Like the second moon and what happened when she used that expressway exit. In a sense, it is like the Heisenberg uncertainty principle - at the subatomic level, the methods we use to observe things actually impact them on a quantum level. So we can know something's momentum, but not where it is, or we can know where something is, but not its momentum. Also, some things are just riddles that are only understood upon becoming enlightened; by the mind processing it differently. And explanations can't really show that. Like if I'm pointing at the moon, and you are looking at my finger, you can't truly understand the moon (my finger being the explanation). You have to see the moon for yourself.
It's not smoke, it's particles of water vapour that are condensing and sublimating into minuscule droplets and ice crystals. The most plentiful product of combustion is water. It looks like smoke for the same reason you can see your breath when you exhale in the cold. When the car moves the water disperses in the cold, dry air more quickly.
The two-liter bottle was introduced in the USA in 1970 by John Sculley of Pepsi, who later went on to run Apple Computer. URL_0 In the early-mid 1970s the USA was dabbling with adopting the metric system, and Pepsi was trying to be cutting-edge. Even though that adoption still hasn't broadly succeeded. Sculley's brilliant marketing move did succeed, moving just his industry to using liters. To add, liquor in the US is almost universally sold in 750 ml bottles, although they are colloquially referred to as fifth gallons (which is 757 ml). When bottlers switched from glass (breakable, heavy, needed to have a deposit system to get people to return them) to plastic (unbreakable in daily life, lightweight, no need for returns), they did so during a push for metrication (70s-80s). Once they finished rebuilding all their bottling plants, there was absolutely no incentive to go back and re-tool them all for a slightly smaller size, especially as bulk soda is almost never used in precision applications (like most foods are, in recipes). Bottled water is absolutely available in liter and half-liter sizes. Gallon bottles of water are just repurposed milk bottles. It's a matter of timing. It wasn't just the move to the metric system. Scully and Pepsi took advantage of the fact that 2-liters is more than a half-gallon, so consumers were told they were getting 5% more soda for free. It was really a marketing ploy, and other manufacturers had to follow suit for two reasons. First to bring their products to parity, and second to standardize bottle size that in turn standardized inventory, distribution, and shelf space Note that many premium ice cream manufacturers recently did the reverse from a half-gallon to three pints. This was intended to allow stocking space for product varieties, and well as absorb the increased costs of manufacturing They don't always. 12 ounce cans are sold. Liter and 2 liter bottles were a later invention and were made in metric sizes for simplicity and it really doesn't matter.
This is very, very, very, nearly impossibly rare. I trained as an O R nurse in the US in the 1970's. We counted all the instruments before surgery and after. These numbers were written down both times. The patient's incision was not closed until the numbers were equal. Also, during surgery sponges were used. Not the kitchen variety. They look like wash clothes and each has a tiny metal tag. These are counted as they are used and again counted at the end of surgery. Rarely a sponge may be left in the patient. And let me repeat, rarely. On x-ray the tag will be seen. Another operation and the sponge removed.
Your cable company is compressing the signal. Over-the-air transmissions are 100% pure, uncompressed video signals.
It's an attempt to heal wounds that still ache. What you are referring to is benign, but repetition compulsion drives people to get into therapy for harmful relationship patterns. URL_0
When we're angry and/or stressed, it's often because we feel as though we don't have control over our circumstances. So by physically destroying inanimate objects, we are exerting control of our own over those items, reminding ourselves that we do have power and capability, even if that power to smash something fragile doesn't actually fix the original problem.
Have you considered that perhaps you are getting a cold? What exactly was the deep fried stuff? Fatty foods often leave an oily feeling in people's throats, which is probably somewhat lubricating. There's a good chance you were eating SALTY fried stuff, which will dry out your mucous membranes (such as the back of your throat) by drawing water out of them.
No advantage to the imperial. The changes are arithmetic only. The metric system being standardised in orders of magnitude makes it significantly easier to remember. It's worth pointing out they are (were?) both standardised. The difference is one is standardised in a much more user friendly way. Look at these two Imperial units list [this] ( URL_0 ) and [this] ( URL_2 ). These are *slightly* different from the ones the US uses, but comparable enough for this (it's a bit like the difference between US English and correct English :P ) Now look at [this]( URL_1 ) This one is much easier to remember. The Imperial system is more closely tied to the size of the human body, and it is easier to measure things by cutting them in half or doubling them than it is to break out a scale. A minor "benefit" I've heard mentioned is that a foot is 12 inches which can be divided more readily (2, 3, 4) without needing to resort to fractions. (Note: I am merely passing on what I heard and am not advocating that such a thing is indeed a benefit.) In metric, all measurements are relatable to one another. You can easily determine how many joules of energy you need to raise the temperature of a kilo of water by one degree C, because all of them use base units of kilos, Celsius (Kelvin) & Joules. In the imperial system, however, the only way would be to resort to conversion equations or look up tables, since there are no standardised, relatable units. As someone else pointed out, before the days where we had easy access to a calculator, the imperial system's base in the number 12 would make it easier to divide it up, since 12 is easily divisible by 2, 3, 4, & 6, while 10 has only 2 & 5, with 3 as a very rough approximation. But these days that's no excuse to cling to it. To my knowledge, there is no benefit. We Americans are just stubborn and like to be different. "United States customary units" (that's the official name) are used in lots of things worldwide because changing would be inconvenient. Wheel sizes, camera mounting screws, electronic component spacing, are a few. The US continues using them because there isn't a big benefit to changing. Scientists and engineers all know the metric system and use it when it is advantageous. It has been widely taught in schools since the 1970's. Most people just don't care. The advantage is that people are used to it. But in science and engineering, the disadvantages are legion. Converting units and dimensional analysis in metric systems are a snap, but in English units they are a nightmare, at least for me (I'm an engineer, btw). I'm American, and I far prefer to do calculations in imperial and convert back to imperial at the end. It's just easier. Probably my biggest peeve about the imperial system is the slug. The imperial unit for mass, the slug, is basically a formality, and most engineering texts use the concept of pound-mass, where they just take something's weight and divide by gravity, as most things are measured in pounds, not slugs. This may not sound like a big problem, but what it results in is that EVERY SINGLE EQUATION has an errant gravity constant (or lack of one, or one squared, etc) that is different that what I learned, and am used to using. So, when studying for my professional engineering test, every single equation had two variants: Imperial and metric. Thankfully, the PE test took answers in both forms, so I just used metric. Maybe it's just me, but I HATE working with imperial units. I wish we'd get on with the rest of the world and move on to metric, if only for the sake of science and engineering.
You're going to get lots of 'experts' giving self-assured reasons why. But any question about dreams is like a dream itself - we just don't have confident answers yet because we don't really understand dreams well, or even the brain itself for that matter.
To fall asleep you need to be both tired and relaxed, as you start to think about falling asleep and it takes too long you become nervous and try to force your body into sleep mode, to which your body senses an imminent danger and responds with fight or flight, releasing adrenaline and making sure you're awake enough to escape the danger that awaits you, even though that's the opposite of what you want. There are neurons that release the hormones that provide you with wakefulness, and different hormones that help slow your body down and put you to sleep. It is my understanding that these cells have no concept of days of the week or other arbitrary measurements of time, they are purely operating on your circadian rhythm. They cannot reprogram to make you sleepy at 9PM on Thursday, and keep you wakeful until 11PM on Friday. They need consistency. Go to bed and wake up at the same time every single day, your energy levels will be consistent, and you will get very tired when it's bed time. It pretty much boils down to a lack of melatonin. You need melatonin to sleep. Now, there might be a whole list of reasons why your body isn't releasing melatonin at 'a reasonable time'.
You refrigerate it so bacteria don't grow in it (or at least, are very slow to do so). Bacteria cannot grow in dry sugar powder because they require moisture to live and reproduce. But a lot of water with some sugar is an excellent environment for bacterial growth. The container the beverage is stored in is not free of bacteria or yeasts. Nor is the water that was added to the powder to make it a beverage. Both may have had safe levels. But when the sugar in the powder was added, it created a moist and nutrient rich environment to rapidly grow. Refrigeration retards the bacterial growth.
Before regrouping, arithmetic was taught as a mechanical procedure to follow and practice religiously, without any regard to why it works. 3 4 2 -1 7 3 ------- When subtracting a larger number from a smaller number, you'd pretend there's an extra 1 before the larger number, so 2 - 3 becomes 12 - 3. Then after writing down 9, you'd "carry" that extra 1 to the next line. Then you can either subtract one from the top number, or add one to the lower number - they're equivalent, and continue. It's pretty much exactly the same as regrouping, but the idea of "carry the 1" doesn't really give you any insight into how it works. Old math was about rote learning of the calculation algorithms. You carried and borrowed, but never really knew what that meant mathematically. They were just things you did to get the right answer. New math tried to make it more conceptual. A lot of parents complained about and mocked the new math, because they never really understood math, so it didn't make sense to them. I have always found it ironic that they chagrin for new math was born out of the very ignorance it tries to correct. You see it again today with a lot of the change that happened at the same time as (but not because of) Common Core. Parents don't understand an assignment was about estimation and throw a Facebook fit when their get gets mark down for giving and exact answer. I think the new way is: 7 gets you to 180 27 gets you to 200 127 gets you to 300 167 gets you to 340 169 is the result. Anyway I saw some people complaining on facebook that their kids had to learn this. Seems much easier to me.
Animals can faint if their blood supply to the brain is disrupted, as it can occur in humans, such as by the heart not functioning properly. That being said, I'm not sure animal fainting would be especially noteworthy. The most newsworthy case, "fainting goats" and the like, aren't actually fainting, and even they only draw attention due to the repeatability and frequency of the situation. An animal collapsing is unlikely to draw much news, and may well be swiftly on the way to being a dead animal anyhow.
You are thinking of your operating system being frozen. YOu might have windows. This is a layer of 'computer'. But you can do a fun experiment. Disconnect your hard drive. Turn on your computer. You will then find a whole level of 'computer' that exists beneath your operating system (OS). It is running something called firmware. So from that point it can still do lots of things. One of the things it does when you turn your computer on is to start your OS, if it can find it. So when your OS is frozen, holding down the power button is just sending a message to your BIOS to shut down. That is why you don't usually want to do it when your OS is running. It completely bypasses the OS and doesn't let it do any of the things your OS likes to do when you turn off your computer. The hardware power button is probably tied to the system's bios or low-level firmware. This is basically a small separate computer. Tapping the power button passes that event to the main computer's OS, which does whatever it wants to do. But the firmware/BIOS is what's in the position to *actually start or cut the power*, so if you hold the button it's setup to interperet that as a "pull the plug" signal.
That's X Windows System, not Windows X System. It is also known as X11 or just X. X is basically the windowing system used by UNIX and UNIX-like operating systems. It's been around since 1984. Unlike more popular (nowadays) windowing systems like Microsoft Windows and Mac OS, X is just a basic framework. It provides a basic GUI and, well, windows and a mouse cursor, but you need *other* software to do stuff like put borders on the windows, move them around, etc. This is known as a Window Manager. The advantage here is that you can customise the heck out of your GUI by using the window manager that *you* like. Another *major* difference is the client-server architecture. X runs as a server, and clients connect to it. Basically, if you run X on your machine, you have something that can display windows. To actually *get* these windows, you have to run a client (basically, a program). For example, you can run a browser like Chrome or Firefox. Rather than displaying their data directly, they connect to the X server and have the *server* display the data. The advantage here is that you can run X on your own computer *and all other applications on different computers*. If you think about the UNIX mentality, this makes a lot of sense, especially in the Olden Days when people used fairly weak terminals to display stuff, and had big powerful servers to run applications on. It *also* means that I can run any flavour of Linux I want on my desktop, and use any *other* UNIX-variant to run my applications. Now back in the olden days when we had many different flavours of UNIX running on many different platforms, that was a lot more impressive (I could use a cheap x86 desktop running Linux, and run my applications on a $100,000 SGI Origin cluster). It also meant is was *trivial* for me to display a window on *your* computer. It used to be *more* trivial when everyone was connected directly to the internet, but if we're on the same network it's still remarkably easy. This relates to SSH in that you need to connect to the remote system in order to launch your application. Again, in the Olden Days we'd use telnet or rlogin, which are immensely insecure protocols. Those have all but died out with ssh becoming ubiquitous, and is virtually exclusively used for connections between systems.
alcohol and tobacco were legal before we knew of their risks, and now its the status quo, which is hard to change. Im sure the FDA would love to ban tobacco for sure. but thats not how the govt works, there are other forces at work, namely the smokers who are already addicted, and the industry/jobs that it represents. Also consider alcohol's benefit did outweigh the risk at one point. Water could be deadly to drink so even a mild alcoholic drink was the way to go to prevent getting sick. This made alcohol a necessity at one point in civilization which rooted it deep in our lives which what makes it so hard to kick to the curb. To top that off the process to make alcohol is relatively simple which means that people can easily do it in their own homes. For alcohol at least it simply better to regulate it. I think people really got it backwards. Pot is the perfect reason why alcohol should be illegal. Please note I fully believe that there are medicinal uses for marijuana but i do believe it should be regulated. I know that research has shown that there are components to it that have actual benefits but that's the canniboids (iirc) and not really the part that most people use it for (thc). From what i have read THC doesn't really do anything but help mask symptoms. Its like taking Vicodin for pain. It doesnt solve what is causing the pain but it does make you not feel it as much or at all. It doesn't treat the root causes.
The "new" organ is the mesentery, which has been known about for many years (it was in my medical terminology classes years ago). What's new is they decided it's *structure* is continuous enough to be it's own organ, as opposed to being a feature of another organ (the colon)
They invest the money you give them and earn interest on it. And they don't always pay out so they keep that money too. Most people end up paying more in premiums then they get in return, accounting for inflation and return on the invested funds.
The typical SAM can't tell the difference between friendlies and hostiles. For systems where the SAM is guided from the ground, it's up to the operator to make that call. Aircraft carry a transmitter called an IFF (interrogator friend or foe) transponder. It can transmit a code that identifies an aircraft as friendly. However, that isn't exactly the answer, be a use the missile doesn't read the IFF code. The shooter would be responsible for identifying the target, not the missile itself.
Well a couple reasons. One is that the type of tissue that makes up the inside of your mouth has more blood supply than say your skin. More nutrients means it has the tools to heal faster. Also it's a great deal simpler than just regular skin.. You have like layers on layers of highly specialized cells on the skin of say your hand.. Where in your mouth it's just a mucous membrane with a smattering of fiberous tissue There's [an episode of SciShow]( URL_0 ) that explains a little of what's going on here, but the gist of it is that human saliva, and that of some animals contains a protein called [Tissue Factor]( URL_2 ) which they claim helps with the blood clotting process. They add that saliva also has [Lysozyme]( URL_1 ), an enzyme which can inhibit bacterial growth by attacking the cell walls of certain bacteria. Edit: yes, the video I referenced is about why animals lick their wounds, and yes it applies to humans and no, I don't advise you to do that. Use some neosporin or something you animals. There's one reason that I didn't see mentioned here. It HAS to. It's got a lot of things going for it that help it heal quickly, but when you get right down to it, cuts, abrasions, and burns in your mouth have to heal quickly or else they'd become really nasty festering wounds. Mouths are really nasty biological cesspools, and if you get an injury there, you're a lot better off if the skin cells in there are actually programmed to react to damage with superspeed repairs. Because it's highly vascularized and it's keratinized stratified squamous skin tissue. Keratinized cells are generally the types of cells on the body that are regularly exposed to the outside world, they tend to be tougher and repair quickly due to the fact they are hydrated and are often exposed to simple trauma. They are arranged in a manner that allows them to slough off and be replaced easily without the deeper layers of tissue becoming exposed. Edit: sorry didn't know what ELI5 meant before I posted this. Was excited there was a question I knew the answer to.
> If almost all countries are indebted and they can't repay their debts Your premise is wrong. While most countries do have some level of debt, they can pay it off. There's nothing "bad" about debt, unless you can't afford to pay it back. > why not just start from scratch with 0 debts for everyone ? They do. It's called a default. However, defaulting causes a lot of problems- your money becomes worthless (which makes life for your citizens hard, especially the ones who loaned you money). It also means even if you start with new money, no one is going to trust you for a while - why should they, you didn't pay back last time? It's not any different than being the guy at work asking to borrow $5 and never paying it back. Even if you aren't in debt with the new money, it's going to be worth junk. The thing that gives money value is trust. If no one is willing to take your new dollar, you're still in a bad spot. Eventually, your new currency will probably be cheap enough that people will use it, but not after doing massive damage to your country and economy. > If almost all countries are indebted and they can't repay their debts With the exception of a few countries, they can and do repay their debts. Most sovereign debt is owned by citizens of the country which issued it. Meaning that if government X decided to stop making debt payments, the people most affected by it would be individuals of country X. Because these debts aren't owed to other countries (or at least, not all of them). Also remember that one mans debt is another mans loan. Someone owns that debt, and someone is going to get very pissed that his money is gone. Most of the debt is owed to the general public and private companies. Imagine if you suddenly decided that you, personally, would not pay back *any* debt, loans or payments that you owe to anyone. How do you think that will go for you? Going to the other side, if someone who ows you a couple of grand came up to you and said "hey, I'm not paying you back, cya!". how much will you now trust this person? would you lend him again later? Same thing if every government decides to not honor their debt. The world economy would simply crash in a horrid spiral where nobody trusts in the value of the government backed currency and financial system. The government would loose its ability to do modern business and we would have a very-great depression. First of all, being in debt isn't bad. Most homeowners buy houses with a mortgage, most students take out a student loan and even millionaires probably take out loans for large purchases. As long as you can pay it back, debt is fine. The problem arises when governments become irresponsible. For example, Greece allowed people to retire at 55 whereas in the UK people had to work almost 10 years more. The pensions are paid by the government; one was responsible and the other was irresponsible - guess who had a debt crisis? Also, governments don't always loan money to each other. Instead, you have government bonds which is a piece of paper that you pay a certain sum of money for and the government pays it back with interest. Most of these bonds are owned by individuals and companies rather than other governments. Also, if a country is drowning in debt the government can just say 'Sorry, I can't pay you.' and they won't have to pay it. However, this is bad for the citizens of the country because business won't trust that country and that means jobs, infrastructure and their money becomes worthless. Edit: grammar
We don't have depth perception beyond about 10 meters. Anything further than that, your eyes are focused at infinity, and are pointing in the same direction. Beyond that, we use cues like its apparent size and brightness, or color shifts caused by the amount of air between you and the object (how a distant mountain looks more blue than a near one). We determine things are flat or round by their shadows.
Your battery app calculates the remaining battery based on the battery power currently being used (mV) and your usage since it was fully charged. That's why you can generally do calibration to correctly measure the current battery status and range of it. Usually, if we ignore very little variations in the battery power, it goes down. So either your phone's forecast was wrong, or if the battery usage is lower than the expectation, in which case the battery level showed on your screen will increase a little. Hope it was clear, English is not my native language, sorry about that.
Pilot here. Landing on water is quite possibly the worst scenario a pilot can face when a forced landing is on the cards. It's a lot worse for some aircraft than it is for others, but regardless of the aircraft your in, it's a bad day no matter what. The first problem the pilot has to worry about is water isn't solid. It's also incompressible. That means anything entering the water is going to slow down really, really fast. That's a problem for most planes because almost all of them have something hanging from the bottom that will dig into the water well before the body of the plane hits the water. For large jet aircraft, this most often tends to be the engines sitting under the wings that act like giant water scoops. For smaller aircraft, it's often the bottom of the propellers and indeed some smaller aircraft have fixed non retractable undercarriage. The trouble is when these things hit the water, they basically act like a scoop causing instant drag and smashing the body of the aircraft into the water. Often quite hard. It's this near instant de acceleration to a stop that causes the aircraft to break up and the many fatalities on board. To counter this, pilots are taught that when forced to land on water, they should keep the nose extremely high which forces the tail to go extremely low. Hopefully the tail glances along the water first and slows the plane down enough so that when the plane "Digs in" to the water, it's going at much slower speed.You may be surprised to know most airlines do not extensively train their pilots for water based landings, if even at all. If there was ever a plane to be in for a forced water landing, it's one where the engines are mounted on the body of the aircraft [like this example]( URL_0 ). This means there's nothing to hit the water before the body of the aircraft does, thereby decreasing your chances of a fatal break up. Should the pilot get the aircraft down in one piece, it's surprising to most people to learn that a plane will float quite well, though it likely would not remain afloat forever. This is because some of the same reasons that keep it flying in the air also help to float on water. A broad weight distribution across a large surface area. Another reason is either the air or the fuel in its tanks is lighter than water and thus aid its buoyancy. It tends to be water rushing into the aircraft via windows/doors/breaks that forces it to sink. This was evidenced by the [aircraft that came down in the Hudson river]( URL_1 ) and how long it took to sink. It sinks and depends on where it went down divers or recovery crews are sent to recover the black boxes to see why the plane failed. If a plane sinks the cost of repairing the water and impact damage usualy makes the idea of refusbishing the plane and putting it back in to service quite unrealistic. Wikipedia has an [excellent article on this]( URL_0 ) and it's worth readin if you want to get a sense of how rare successful water landings are. Planes are normally irrecoverable in terms of being able to make them flight worthy again. Black boxes and scrap metal are the only things worth dredging them back up, typically.
Additionally, bread doesn't have a lot of mass compared to its size. It is more like a sponge when you look at its structure. So when you compare its size and weight to "non-hollow" food, you need little energy to heat it up.
